Restarted my computer and saw this Restarted my computer and saw thisu/throwingstones123456•46 min. agoRestarted my computer and saw this
Guess for how long I’ve been using Ubuntu. Guess for how long I’ve been using Ubuntu.u/KorgothPR•2 days agoGuess for how long I’ve been using Ubuntu.
Ubuntun Install 🤣✌🏻 Windows Ubuntun Install 🤣✌🏻 Windowsu/Honest_Ad_7958•5 hr. agoUbuntun Install 🤣✌🏻 Windows
Did i make this accurate guys? Did i make this accurate guys?u/frustrated_s0ul•1 mo. agoDid i make this accurate guys?
Seen in Mexico Seen in Mexicou/rwffh•9 hr. agoSeen in Mexico
Ubuntu spotted in Dominos Ubuntu spotted in Dominosu/aayush_aryan•7 days agoUbuntu spotted in DominosUbuntu in the wild
Ubuntu 6.06 (delayed 6.04) Ubuntu 6.06 (delayed 6.04)u/Reasonable-Ad4660•21 hr. agoUbuntu 6.06 (delayed 6.04)
System Updated Today; Suspend No Longer Works System Updated Today; Suspend No Longer Worksu/jarming•1 hr. agoSystem Updated Today; Suspend No Longer WorksAfter running a system update today, I found the suspend function on my computer no longer works. I can click suspend, and my monitor, keyboard, and mouse will not longer work with the computer, but the computer will remain on. If I try to wake the system back up, it won't wake up, and I need to use the power button on my computer to restart it. Sometimes the desktop won't come back on after typing in my password on my lock screen either.I am fairly new to Ubuntu, after wanting to be more involved in how my technology works. I would appreciate any suggestions on what I should try. No successful results came from trying several solutions recommended after searching people having the problem before. I tried:Adding stuff to grub, as in this suggestion:https://askubuntu.com/questions/1513210/suspend-bug-for-ubuntu-24-04ltsSeveral things from this article:https://allthings.how/how-to-fix-ubuntu-24-04-1-lts-freezes-in-suspend-mode-standby/Thank you!
Dear mods, for the love of god, fix this. Dear mods, for the love of god, fix this.u/National-Caregiver-4•22 days agoDear mods, for the love of god, fix this.
Gnome KDE Switching Gnome KDE Switchingu/pegenaute229•7 hr. agoGnome KDE SwitchingI recently installed Ubuntu 24.04 LTS, and it came with the GNOME desktop environment by default. I switched to KDE, and I seem to like it better. Is there anything I should know to get the most out of it? Thanks.
on Ubuntu for at least 3 years now on Ubuntu for at least 3 years nowu/satina_nix•5 days agoon Ubuntu for at least 3 years now
Got my first real hard bug with Ubuntu Got my first real hard bug with Ubuntuu/Weedzo•18 hr. agoGot my first real hard bug with UbuntuBeen a user of Ubuntu 24 for about one year and got my first major bug, after a simple update my PC refuse to boot with error ubuntu 24 kernel panic vfs unable to mount root fs unknown-block. I manage to fix it by booting with an older kernel and update-initramfs -u -k <kernel-version>But I have to said this is not very user friendly and common basic user would have a hard time fixing it.Still happy, fix was easy for me and one bug in one year is not bad, but I as much as I hate Windows I never have such boot-blocking issue in 10+ years
I made a physical printed DVD of Ubuntu Desktop. I made a physical printed DVD of Ubuntu Desktop.u/mariobros237•4 days agoI made a physical printed DVD of Ubuntu Desktop.
struggling to switch from x11 to wayland struggling to switch from x11 to waylandu/SomeSortaWeeb•11 hr. agostruggling to switch from x11 to waylandI have done the following from a guide:sudo nano /etc/gdm3/custom.conffrom here i uncommented WaylandEnable=true (switching 'false' to 'true')saved the file, when i use the previous command my changes are still theresudo systemctl restart gdm3this gave me a black screen but i was able to open the terminal from it where i then repeated the command and got my desktop backecho $XDG_SESSION_TYPEthis returned 'x11' which the guide says means that it didnt work, then i didsudo rebootwhich also did not work. am i doing something wrong..? the guide is for ubuntu 24.04 which ive double checked i do indeed have.just trying to install waydroid and ive hit a wall before i even got to the part where you install it ;-;edit: was blind, there's a fifth step in the guide that says to click a gear before logging in, though that gear is nowhere to be found which the guide says must mean i didnt enable wayland... i have no idea anymore. the only "gear" i can find in the login screen is in the top right which only gives options to suspend or shut down.
proud new Ubuntu user proud new Ubuntu useru/RBDYT•12 days agoproud new Ubuntu user
Problemas con Balena Etcher - "Flash Failded" Problemas con Balena Etcher - "Flash Failded"u/Dull-Economy-4804•11 hr. agoProblemas con Balena Etcher - "Flash Failded"Balena no me deja hacer el boot en mi usb siempre me da el mensaje de flash failded cuando esta al 99 de la validacion, ya descargue y lo hice en la version 1.18 como administrador pero tampoco me sirve
100% Agree 100% Agreeu/Realistic_Wait_5711•24 days ago100% Agree
Ubuntu nation Ubuntu nationu/Thebluewolfe•11 hr. agoUbuntu nation
That Moment When the Repair Shop Isn’t Using Windows That Moment When the Repair Shop Isn’t Using Windowsu/OkUnderstanding4355•1 mo. agoThat Moment When the Repair Shop Isn’t Using Windows
Can't find Steam folder for some reason Can't find Steam folder for some reasonu/onehundredpercentsan•15 hr. agoCan't find Steam folder for some reasonHidden files have been made visible -> Home/.local/share -> no Steam folder. Steam is installed and was used quite a long time. Can anyone help?
I show you my Ubuntu 25.10 desktop 😊 I show you my Ubuntu 25.10 desktop 😊u/maximus10m•26 days agoI show you my Ubuntu 25.10 desktop 😊
First time trying Ubuntu. Any tips? First time trying Ubuntu. Any tips?u/TrueBlueUser•6 days agoFirst time trying Ubuntu. Any tips?
halo 2 not working halo 2 not workingu/thatdaftfan•2 hr. agohalo 2 not workingSo Recently I decided to install Halo:the master cheif collection to my pc through steam. I downloaded the best halo (halo 2) but it doesn't work. I tried changing proton versions and tried to find the easyanticheat file, but alas, no luck. I figured since you guys are the ubuntu wizards you could help me with this
Ubuntu on a mid 2007 iMac Ubuntu on a mid 2007 iMacu/Overall_Dare_2134•5 days agoUbuntu on a mid 2007 iMac
Vocalinux v0.6.0-beta: Voice dictation for Ubuntu with whisper.cpp (10x faster, AMD/Intel/NVIDIA support) Vocalinux v0.6.0-beta: Voice dictation for Ubuntu with whisper.cpp (10x faster, AMD/Intel/NVIDIA support)u/jatinkrmalik•23 hr. agoVocalinux v0.6.0-beta: Voice dictation for Ubuntu with whisper.cpp (10x faster, AMD/Intel/NVIDIA support)Hello folsk, posted about this ~3 weeks ago inr/linux, wanted to share an update specifically for Ubuntu users.Vocalinuxis a voice dictation tool that works 100% offline on Ubuntu. Double-tap Ctrl, speak, your words appear in any application.What's New in v0.6.0-betaMajor Change: whisper.cpp is Now Default10x faster installation: ~1-2 minutes (was 5-10 min)Works with all GPUs: AMD, Intel, NVIDIA via Vulkan (not just NVIDIA)Smaller download: 39MB vs 2.3GBSame accuracy: Still uses Whisper model, just better implementationNow Has a Real GUIv0.2.0 was all config files. v0.6.0 has a proper GTK settings dialog:System tray integrationSettings: choose engine, model size, shortcutsWorks on Ubuntu 22.04, 24.04, etc.Installation on UbuntuInstalls to~/.local/share/vocalinux/and~/.local/bin/vocalinux.No snap, no flatpak, just standard directories.Ubuntu-Specific FeaturesAppArmor: Doesn't require profile changesWayland support: Works on default Ubuntu desktop (GNOME/Wayland)Gnome integration: Appears in applications menu, system trayAutomatic deps: Install script handles python3-gi, portaudio19-dev, etc.Website:https://vocalinux.comGitHub:https://github.com/jatinkrmalik/vocalinuxLooking for Ubuntu TestersTesting on:Ubuntu 22.04 LTSUbuntu 24.04 LTSUbuntu 24.10Xubuntu/Kubuntu (X11)Does it work on your setup? Any issues with Wayland or specific Ubuntu flavors?Feedback from Ubuntu users especially welcome!
Ubuntu gave my old laptop a new life. Thank you! Ubuntu gave my old laptop a new life. Thank you!u/Creative-Ad653•18 days agoUbuntu gave my old laptop a new life. Thank you!
I want to experience PC game. I want to experience PC game.u/its-MAGNETIC•4 days agoI want to experience PC game.
Installation messed up and now I don’t know what to do Installation messed up and now I don’t know what to dou/throwawayfundsmom•2 hr. agoInstallation messed up and now I don’t know what to do
is there any way to run ubuntu efficiently without installing it is there any way to run ubuntu efficiently without installing itu/Ok-Finger-1310•17 hr. agois there any way to run ubuntu efficiently without installing iti have ubuntu this sem and i want to learn , but i cant install it on my laptop , whats a better alternative to use ubuntu
Yet another Text 2 Speech app, in case anyone is interested Yet another Text 2 Speech app, in case anyone is interestedu/igorim•1 day agoYet another Text 2 Speech app, in case anyone is interestedCouldn't find one that worked without copy and paste (mine still needs copy and paste but only in non - Ibus apps), also apparently Ibus security model and additional security around inputs in 25.10 seemed like a good time to build my ownCurrently very much alpha, literally got end 2 end working this morning, minor issues more like annoyances.Built with modular backend, so can utilize any model. Right now Parakeet is the only one I focused on and tested, but there is a whispercpp backend, and http for api based models.By default it runs CPU only, it's instant on my machine (but you know... my machine)If anyone wants to try would love feedbackhttps://github.com/igor-im/speak2type
Help with WiFi drivers Help with WiFi driversu/Sokeefe5000•3 hr. agoHelp with WiFi driversHello I am new here.I need help finding WiFi drivers for the 2016 MacBook Pro the chip it uses is the bcm4350Thanks!
Switching to Ubuntu, i need some help with compatibility Switching to Ubuntu, i need some help with compatibilityu/Bugwie_•1 day agoSwitching to Ubuntu, i need some help with compatibilityCan Ubuntu 25.10 or 24.04 take full advantages of what i have installed?I have a machine that mounts "NVIDIA GeForce RTX 4060" and has a AMD 9 7900 as a processor, I have searched all around but with no end.I have seen post on this with people lamenting that NVIDIA drivers aren't available for specific distros.I have also seen on NVIDIA forums people who wanted to use Ubuntu 20 but with no help.Are those drivers available or there is no hope?
Ubuntu 24.04 volume mount issue Ubuntu 24.04 volume mount issueu/SH0080•1 day agoUbuntu 24.04 volume mount issue
I built a 4-in-1 modern GUI to manage .deb, Snaps, Flatpaks, and AppImages in one place I built a 4-in-1 modern GUI to manage .deb, Snaps, Flatpaks, and AppImages in one placeu/gonzarom•7 days agoI built a 4-in-1 modern GUI to manage .deb, Snaps, Flatpaks, and AppImages in one place
Installer need for speed pro street sur Ubuntu Installer need for speed pro street sur Ubuntuu/LiRoX_66•4 hr. agoInstaller need for speed pro street sur UbuntuInstaller need for speed pro street sur Ubuntur/needforspeed•4 hr. agoInstaller need for speed pro street sur UbuntuAs the title says, I'd like to install NFS Pro Street on Ubuntu, specifically version 22. Do you have any tutorial resources?
Default Ubuntu is a goated aesthetic. Default Ubuntu is a goated aesthetic.u/Medical_Umpire913•23 days agoDefault Ubuntu is a goated aesthetic.
This is my current Ubuntu desktop. This is my current Ubuntu desktop.u/Bright-Search-9406•20 days agoThis is my current Ubuntu desktop.
GPU Performance Issues |Kubuntu GPU Performance Issues |Kubuntuu/Wonderful_Dinner3037•1 day agoGPU Performance Issues |KubuntuRunning Kubuntu 25.10 on my Desktop PC with these specs:Intel Core i5-740016 GiB DDR4NVIDIA GeForce GTX 1050TiMinecraft lags horrendously because the GPU usage is 0% all the time.After switching from default to proprietary NVIDIA 580 graphics driver, GPU usage started going up from 0-10%, but when launching Minecraft it makes the screen go white and adds other sorts of graphical errors.What I've done the first day:- installing the driver directly from the nvidia website didn't help- removing the driver (returning to default) and reinstalling it using:sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-XXX.run --uninstallsudo apt purge '^nvidia-.*'sudo apt autoremovesudo rebootdidn't help- reinstalling the driver automatically using sudo apt install nvidia-driver-580 didn't help- running prime-select nvidia returned Error: no integrated GPU detected, running prime-select query returned on-demand- running sudo ubuntu-drivers install didn't helpWhat I've done the second day:- glxinfo | grep "OpenGL renderer" returned OpenGL renderer string: NVIDIA GeForce GTX 1050 Ti/PCIe/SSE2- sudo apt install mesa-utils returned newest version already installed- already stopped using the .run installer, the automatic download does the same thing as the .run installer- ubuntu-drivers devices recommends nvidia 580, which I tried already- updating to nvidia 550 showed the same exact problem- running X11 with nvidia 550 didn't allow Minecraft to start- running X11 with recommended drivers showed 0% GPU usage, however allowed Minecraft to start- in all cases above Minecraft shows to be using Mesa (that's bad)- lspci | grep -E "VGA|3D" returned 01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation GP107 [GeForce GTX 1050 Ti] (rev a1)- after reinstalling Modrinth (Modrinth was previously installed on default drivers on Wayland) (including deleting all the user data) on driver 580, both on Wayland and X11 it didn't launchI could still try to download the AppImage and run it that way, though I feel like even if I do, Minecraft won't utilize my GPU.Any help?
My Ubuntu Desktop ❤️ My Ubuntu Desktop ❤️u/Weary_Manner_9029•16 days agoMy Ubuntu Desktop ❤️
Ubuntu makes me so happy. Ubuntu makes me so happy.u/unknown-random-nope•5 days agoUbuntu makes me so happy.That’s all.  Thanks so much to every single contributor.
Ubuntu Desktop Ubuntu Desktopu/semaow•11 days agoUbuntu Desktop
Lock Screen Scale Lock Screen Scaleu/Ashamed_Sense_908•1 day agoLock Screen Scalei changed my scaling to 125% but the lock screen didnt get set up even after reboots, what can i do to scale the lock screen ?
My Ubuntu Desktop ❤️ My Ubuntu Desktop ❤️u/SwiftSnooper•5 days agoMy Ubuntu Desktop ❤️
Ubuntu: I am because we are Ubuntu: I am because we areu/bdzz•6 days agoUbuntu: I am because we are
Choosing linux anyway Choosing linux anywayu/misterfesk•20 days agoChoosing linux anyway
Zebra ET50/51 Tablet - What to Put On? Zebra ET50/51 Tablet - What to Put On?u/KMjolnir•5 hr. agoZebra ET50/51 Tablet - What to Put On?Hello folks,So I recently had a number of Zebra ET50 and ET51 tablets that were disposed of by my company and were free to a good home, so, naturally, they're sitting on my dining room table. :D These originally had Windows 10 IoT, and with that hitting end of life, and of course really having been set up for use with a keyboard & all, trying to figure out what to put on.I saw several suggestions for Ubuntu Touch, however they don't seem to have a version for the Zebra ET50/51 tablets, so, next question... what do you all recommend? Want to avoid one thatreallyneeds a mouse & keyboard as much as possible (for use around the house occasionally).Given the specs on the Zebra ET50 and 51s, lightweight is going to be key, they're both limited to 64gb EMMCs, and the processor is fairly weak. Iwastrying to find the spec sheets but can't anymore, maybe I'm just looking in the wrong places.Anyway, any suggestions you guys have would be appreciated.
Next Nextu/IsHyperactive_•5 days agoNext
Installing Ubuntu on Omnibook X Installing Ubuntu on Omnibook Xu/Miserable-Assist-974•1 day agoInstalling Ubuntu on Omnibook XI kinda wanted to install linux os on my hp omnibook x but then the people at the shop said it might affect the touch screen /display settings of the laptop.If anyone has installed or tried installing on an omnibook pls let me know how it went
Kernel panic after software update Kernel panic after software updateu/ComprehensiveForm387•2 days agoKernel panic after software updateBooting up no longer works, i get a screen about a kernel panic. Yesterday after the software updater ran, it complained that something had gone wrong without specifying what but system seemed just fine to me. I built my pc last march with brand new components so it should not be a hardware issue. Tried searching for it on the internet but what i found so far seems to assume i can at least boot. Should i just reinstall ubuntu? And is it normal that regular software updates can cause kernel panics?
How to fix this. How to fix this.u/wkuchars•2 days agoHow to fix this.
Day 10 of using Linux after switching from windows Day 10 of using Linux after switching from windowsu/ZenTen_•24 days agoDay 10 of using Linux after switching from windows
Saved from macOS! Saved from macOS!u/viron86•16 days agoSaved from macOS!
I built a simple Linux process monitor to make CPU usage easier to understand I built a simple Linux process monitor to make CPU usage easier to understandu/oxonomii•2 days agoI built a simple Linux process monitor to make CPU usage easier to understandHi everyone!I recently needed to monitor processes on Ubuntu and found myself confused by how CPU usage is shown in htop.For example, if you have a 6-core CPU with 2 threads per core (12 threads total), and a process fully loads the CPU, htop can show 1200% usage. Technically correct, but it can be confusing for non-sysadmins.So my friend and I built a small ncurses-based process monitor where:CPU usage is shown relative to the whole CPU (0-100%)Updates ecvery 1 secondMemory usage is clearly displayedPer-core load is visibleSimple and clean interfaceCurrently it tracks processes, CPU, and RAM usage, and shows each core's load. We recently rewrote it fully in C (originally mixed C and C++).In the future, we thinking about:Thread-level process monitoringContainer-aware process detectionSwap usageProcess tree viewWe're not trying to replace htop or btop - those are great tools.I'd love to hear your thoughts:Does showing CPU relative to total CPU make sense?What would make you try another process monitor?Is there something you find unnecessarily complex in existing tools?
Goodbye Windows 11, Hello Ubuntu! 🐧 Finally made the switch on my IdeaPad 3 Goodbye Windows 11, Hello Ubuntu! 🐧 Finally made the switch on my IdeaPad 3u/rachid_nichan•12 days agoGoodbye Windows 11, Hello Ubuntu! 🐧 Finally made the switch on my IdeaPad 3
[OC] I recreated the Ubuntu logo in 3D software and rendered it. [OC] I recreated the Ubuntu logo in 3D software and rendered it.u/chomp_balloons02•10 days ago[OC] I recreated the Ubuntu logo in 3D software and rendered it.
Sticking With Ubuntu Sticking With Ubuntuu/digital_buddha123•21 days agoSticking With Ubuntu
Sydney metro screen running ubuntu Sydney metro screen running ubuntuu/raul824•4 days agoSydney metro screen running ubuntu
My game crashes My game crashesu/Gxbriel99•5 hr. agoMy game crashesGuys good evening, sorry for the stupid question but I come from Windows and I recently started using Ubuntu, before to play I used streamUnlocked and steam now what is the problem, on steam even though I have set the external compatibility in the settings (I searched on reddit and chatgpt) the game crashes as soon as it opens (I start by saying that the game is a demo and does not weigh anything, on Windows it was smooth), the second thing, what can I use as an alternative to steamunlocked for Ubuntu?
Ubuntu will not boot - bad Superblock. Tried repairing the partition on a live OS but did not succeed. How to do this properly? Ubuntu will not boot - bad Superblock. Tried repairing the partition on a live OS but did not succeed. How to do this properly?u/Impolioid•2 days agoUbuntu will not boot - bad Superblock. Tried repairing the partition on a live OS but did not succeed. How to do this properly?Ubuntu will not boot - bad Superblock. Tried repairing the partition on a live OS but did not succeed. How to do this properly?r/linux4noobs•2 days agoUbuntu will not boot - bad Superblock. Tried repairing the partition on a live OS but did not succeed. How to do this properly?i suddenly got an error and was not able to boot anymore.i tried fdisk, it did something but now when starting into the system i get the message: "x86/cps: SGX disabled by bios"when trying to boot into recovery mode i get:"mdadm: no arrays found in config file or automaticallyGave up waiting for root file system device. Common problems:-Boot args (cat /proc/cmdline)-Check rootdelay= (did the system wait long enough?)-Missing modules (cat proc/modules: ls /dev)ALERT! UUID=0e0a0872-7ad7-47b0-80c7-6d3947b5063 does not exist. Dr(*did not fully copy word*) shell!BusBox v1.36.1 (Ubuntu 1:1.36.1-6ubuntu3.1) built-in shell (ash)Enter 'help' for a list of built-in commands."I have not idea what i am doing or what i am suppossed to do.I will boot into a live OS now. Hopefully i can repair from there. It will allow me to copy paste the terminal results here.Any help appreciated, thanks!Edit: sorry for confusion: on the SSD is Linux Mint 22 Cinnamon, on usb live os is ubuntuedit2: fixed!when in busybox enter "fdsk -f /dev/your partition" it will do its thing and repair the broken blocks.thanks for the help everybody!2upvotes·25comments
My Ubuntu Desktop, set up just the way I like it My Ubuntu Desktop, set up just the way I like itu/iamaakashbasnet•28 days agoMy Ubuntu Desktop, set up just the way I like it
# diff-numerics: A Unix CLI Tool for Numerical File Comparison # diff-numerics: A Unix CLI Tool for Numerical File Comparisonu/Ale-Dev-lish•5 hr. ago# diff-numerics: A Unix CLI Tool for Numerical File Comparisonhttps://github.com/alessandrograssi-dev/diff-numerics
Update broke my PC, Ubuntu 24.04 Update broke my PC, Ubuntu 24.04u/ISzox•2 days agoUpdate broke my PC, Ubuntu 24.04So, I updated my PC today with the standard tools, which broke something. When i boot, the Bios flashes, a dozen command lines blink on screen and I am prompted with a single blinking underscore in the upper left corner, which continues blinking for minutesNeed some advice where i should look for more resources to help with my problem.
Problems with audio when using wine or steam proton for windows games (Unresolved for months) Problems with audio when using wine or steam proton for windows games (Unresolved for months)u/VengefulGh0st•2 days agoProblems with audio when using wine or steam proton for windows games (Unresolved for months)The audio somewhat works, but it will cut out at random anywhere between after 10s-10m of playtimeI've tried many many methods to fix it over the months but since I'm not tech savvy I've just been hard-stuckThat said I did figure out a "half-solution" that might hint at what the underlying problem isOnce audio breaks, if I use [PulseAudio Volume Control], then switch between volume options:Meteor Lake-P HD Audio Controller Speaker + Headphones->Meteor Lake-P HD Audio Controller HDMI / DisplayPort 1 Output->Meteor Lake-P HD Audio Controller Speaker + HeadphonesThis will temporarily fix audio for a whileBut the longer the windows game is open, the more often the audio will break. To the point where generally after 20-40 mins of gameplay, audio will break down so badly that the "fix" no longer worksSometimes when changing between volume options, [PulseAudio Volume Control] even gets a stroke and enters a "reconnecting" state, then redirects itself to the [Output Devices] pageWhen returning to the [Playback] page, the audio option for the windows game will be gone...Opening a windows game also seems to kill the audio of everything else as well as freezing videos, which sucks if I want to listen to something else in the background while playing a game, or just leave the game running in the background while watching videos
How do I change the monitor on the lock screen? How do I change the monitor on the lock screen?u/GabsGame10•6 hr. agoHow do I change the monitor on the lock screen?I've recently migrated from Windows to Ubuntu, it's been working wonders, I just have one issue which is the lock screen. Even though I set the main monitor to be the monitor I'm using, it keeps using my laptop's screen (which is not working properly sometimes). How do I change this
Trouble adding a desktop icon using .desktop Trouble adding a desktop icon using .desktopu/Orurokku•2 days agoTrouble adding a desktop icon using .desktopI`m trying to install this `Zotero` software by following Linux installation instructions provided here:https://www.zotero.org/support/installation(official Zotero website, safe link).Everything goes well, except for the final step, which explains how to integrate the Zotero icon into GNOME Desktop. I created an `opt` directory in `Home` via Nautilus file manager, renamed the unpacked `Zotero-8.0.3_linux-x86_64` directory into `zotero`, moved it into `opt` and copied/pasted the terminal code provided within the instructions in orded to create a symlink (ln -s /opt/zotero/zotero.desktop ~/.local/share/applications/zotero.desktop) but no icons appear within `Show Apps` menu even after laptop reboot. What am I doing wrong? New to Linux, obviously.
Just got approved! You can now install GitHub Tray directly from GNOME Extensions 🚀 Just got approved! You can now install GitHub Tray directly from GNOME Extensions 🚀u/debba_•2 days agoJust got approved! You can now install GitHub Tray directly from GNOME Extensions 🚀Just got approved! You can now install GitHub Tray directly from GNOME Extensions 🚀r/gnome•2 days agoJust got approved! You can now install GitHub Tray directly from GNOME Extensions 🚀228upvotes·61comments
Issues with firefox when playing videos Issues with firefox when playing videosu/StandardCh33s3•2 days agoIssues with firefox when playing videosSo, I apologize but I'm very very new to Linux overall, I've been trying to learn and solve this on my own but I've tried quite a lot of things already and I don't know what's wrong exactly, I noticed that when playing a video on Youtube the quality wasn't very good and it seemed to lag and freeze for a split second at times, so I figured my gpu wasn't being recognized by Firefox for some reason, so I had to look somewhere for where to find the issue, and I managed to find my gpu being used and recognized on the about:support on firefox just fine already! but then I tried watching a video, and the quality was noticeably better, but the videos would still randomly lag and freeze at times, so I started looking around for solutions and found a post saying I should make sure the hardware acceleration was enabled on firefox, and I did, I enabled it, and it was said that I should make sure I have all the standard codecs for video too running the command:"sudo apt install ubuntu-restricted-extras"and I did, everything was installed, but the issue persisted, i rebooted just for good measure but it really didn't do anything, I started trying to read the about:support page on the compositing section more closely to see if I could find any clues and not just focus on seeing if it said whether it was using my gpu or not, and I found a lot of things saying "blocklisted" because of missing codecs or failure to do some things, but I don't understand what half of those things mean since I'm still very new again, and I thought the previous command was supposed to cover most of the possible missing codecs, I'll leave some screenshots attached from that area on the about:support page for my firefox, If anyone has any advice on what can I even do to get this fixed I would really appreciate it!
Windows sleep works perfectly, but Ubuntu suspend is completely broken — what can I do now? Windows sleep works perfectly, but Ubuntu suspend is completely broken — what can I do now?u/great-ahead•2 days agoWindows sleep works perfectly, but Ubuntu suspend is completely broken — what can I do now?Hey everyone,I’m really frustrated and need some help from people who use Ubuntu daily.I have a Lenovo Ryzen laptop.On Windows, everything works perfectly — especially sleep mode.I can close the lid, open it again, and it wakes instantly.But on Ubuntu, suspend is completely broken for me.What happens:I click “Suspend”Laptop goes to sleepWhen I try to wake it → the screen stays blackKeyboard lights come on but nothing appearsI’m forced to hard restart every timeI even tried Fedora just to check, and it had the same problem.So I’m confused now.My simple question:If sleep works perfectly on Windows but not on Ubuntu,is there anything I can do to fix Ubuntu’s suspend?Or is this just a hardware issue with Lenovo + AMD and nothing can be done?I want to switch to Ubuntu full-time, but this one issue is stopping me.Would really appreciate advice from people who faced this before.Thanks.
I guess, considering the name, this is the best glamping I guess, considering the name, this is the best glampingu/StuD44•7 hr. agoI guess, considering the name, this is the best glampinghttps://maps.app.goo.gl/e4ejzXXVX3JXNWA36
Finally switching to Ubuntu after 25+ years of Windows – excited, but also a bit nervous Finally switching to Ubuntu after 25+ years of Windows – excited, but also a bit nervousu/Zarion88•4 days agoFinally switching to Ubuntu after 25+ years of Windows – excited, but also a bit nervousHey everyone,after more than 25 years of using Windows almost exclusively, I’ve finally reached the point where I’m just… tired of it.Constant clutter, updates doing their own thing, more and more stuff I didn’t ask for.So I decided to make the jump and installedUbuntu.I’ll be honest: I’m excited, but I also have a lot of respect for the switch.Windows has basically been my “default OS” my whole life, so even simple things feel unfamiliar right now. Nothing dramatic, just that feeling of“okay, this is new territory”.My goals are pretty simple:a stable, calm systemgaming via Steam/Protonless fighting the OS, more just using the computerI’m not looking to distro-hop or over-customize right now. I mainly want something that works, lets me learn at my own pace, and doesn’t get in my way.If you have anybeginner-friendly advice, mindset tips, or things you wish you knew when you first switched from Windows, I’m happy to hear them.Thanks – and wish me luck 😄Edit:Wow, thanks everyone for the great feedback and encouragement! Really appreciate how welcoming this community is. I’m still at work right now, but I’ll read through everything and reply later this evening 🙂My hardware:Ryzen 7 7800X3DMSI B650 Tomahawk WiFiNVIDIA RTX 3060 12 GB (bottleneck)Samsung 970 EVO 2 TB NVMe
Love it Love itu/AirRaid2010•5 days agoLove it
problem using themes (zorin os) support problem using themes (zorin os) supportu/smokeyplayz2•8 hr. agoproblem using themes (zorin os) supportproblem using themes (zorin os)r/zorinos•8 hr. agoproblem using themes (zorin os)I'm having a theme problem. When i'm applying a theme i look at my shell and the text is kinda like light blur like and the background doesn't even match the theme i selected, i also could've chose a another theme which is suppose to be dark like but when  i do shell to search something it shows as white and i can't see no text only the icons. I don't know why it does this whenever i apply themes, can someone help me out i'm trying to try out the theme Nordic and breeze-gtk. is there a command i can run to get it working or a package i need to install??2upvotes·2comments
With Linus announces the new v7.0 merge-window, here comes my update With Linus announces the new v7.0 merge-window, here comes my updateu/WerewolfIll4771•3 days agoWith Linus announces the new v7.0 merge-window, here comes my update
New to Linux, wtf does this mean? New to Linux, wtf does this mean?u/Nearby_Ad_2519•4 days agoNew to Linux, wtf does this mean?
Just installed Ubuntu for the first time ever as a Windows Maxi Just installed Ubuntu for the first time ever as a Windows Maxiu/SuchCommunication140•2 days agoJust installed Ubuntu for the first time ever as a Windows MaxiHey guys, as the title suggests I have used windows my whole entire life and I’ve never really thought of any other operating system.Today I installed Ubuntu alongside windows and I can’t honestly find any reason why I won’t just full port into Ubuntu.Am I missing something?I don’t game on my laptop, I sometimes do some dev work and create some apps or play around with AI agents (this also seems more of a reason to full port Ubuntu) but besides this I browse the web and do some general admin on my laptop.Everything is slick and smooth! Windows is so bloaty and it makes my £500 laptop which I bought a couple a years ago seem like an ancient fossil.That being said, is there any reason why I don’t just move completely over to Ubuntu, from a reasonable stand point.Also is there anything I should do right away! Any tips/tricks/apps or any quality of life changes I should be making!Thanks guys!
What distro for a grade school PC lab? What distro for a grade school PC lab?u/goodnewscrew•2 days agoWhat distro for a grade school PC lab?I manage a 20 PC computer lab (OptiPlex All-in-One Plus) at an elementary school.  Planning on migrating away from windows, as it's a total pain without the budget for Active Directory/Entra ID.  Not to mention it just being bad with ads, AI, privacy, etc.I was originally looking into Zorin OS due to their marketing towards education.  But it seems that most if not all of what they tout is software that can be installed on any distro (or at least Ubuntu based ones).  And ChatGPT is telling me that something like Ubuntu Cinnamon might be a better fit for shared computers.My main goals for the lab are the following:Golden image deployment and reset-based managementusing Clonezilla / FOGUsers generated from a CSV file(username, email, grade/year) via scripted account creationAutomatic creation of a per-student Google Drive folder(e.g.,My Drive/Technology) synced locally on first loginTouch-friendly fullscreen chromium launcherusedonly for lower grades(kiosk-style access) from a custom html file.Here's the reasoning from ChatGPTUbuntu Cinnamon is a better fit for a school lab than Zorin OS because it favorspredictability and administrative clarityover a highly curated, single-user experience. As an official Ubuntu flavor, it keeps a standard Ubuntu base with a traditional desktop model that aligns well with shared machines and older students who are more likely to explore the system. Cinnamon’s behavior is straightforward and easier to reset or standardize when needed, while Zorin’s heavily customized GNOME environment is optimized for personal desktops and can introduce unnecessary abstraction in a lab setting. Overall, Ubuntu Cinnamon better matches the needs of a managed, long-term educational environment where stability and transparency matter more than polish.It makes sense to me.  Anyway, I'd love to hear some opinions from actual humans.  Especially anyone with K12 experience.  Thanks!
I decided to make the switch, from Win11 to Ubuntu since, well, Win11 has some abhorrent privacy issues. I decided to make the switch, from Win11 to Ubuntu since, well, Win11 has some abhorrent privacy issues.u/FickleWrangler•9 days agoI decided to make the switch, from Win11 to Ubuntu since, well, Win11 has some abhorrent privacy issues.
Boot hangs with normal GRUB option (25.10) Boot hangs with normal GRUB option (25.10)u/demiurgegwj•2 days agoBoot hangs with normal GRUB option (25.10)
My rig My rigu/SH0080•7 days agoMy rig
Small touch screen for Ubuntu Small touch screen for Ubuntuu/Feisty-Hold435•2 days agoSmall touch screen for UbuntuI am looking to buy a small portable touchscreen for a Ubuntu pc : it is for a server that I want to monitor and interact (virtual keyboard) to update the server occasionally. Any brands to avoid? I am not looking to spend much but sometimes when you don’t spend much you get something the is a big deception…
Default Ubuntu but with SpaceBar Extension is absolutely goated experience Default Ubuntu but with SpaceBar Extension is absolutely goated experienceu/bhavikagarwal•22 days agoDefault Ubuntu but with SpaceBar Extension is absolutely goated experience
Error installing Ubuntu Studio Error installing Ubuntu Studiou/m3u01•3 days agoError installing Ubuntu StudioError installing Ubuntu Studior/linuxaudio•4 days agoError installing Ubuntu StudioHello, I wanted to try Ubuntu Studio because I'd like to totally remove winslope, even thought mine is bloatware free, but after a while I get a message error "We're sorry but we're not sure what the error is".The laptop is an Asus Tuf A15, I tried to install it without internet connection and with the power saving turned off.The log is pretty big, is there a way to post it without having to deal with an extremely long post?Thanks!Solved!28874559260134FSince you are talking about "trying" the new OS, I would assume that your aim is to run a dual-boot config. If that's the case and Windows is still installed, make sure the "Fast Startup" option isn't enabled and that Windows really was shut down, instead of quasi-hibernated.If the option is active, your file system is in some undefined state from the viewpoint of the new OS. This can create issues like those you are seeing.Some tutorial and background, but there are others too:https://www.windowscentral.com/software-apps/windows-11/how-to-enable-or-disable-fast-startup-on-windows-115upvotes·17comments
Ubuntu ROCm Ubuntu ROCmu/Front_Aerie5566•3 days agoUbuntu ROCmHi everyone,I’m fairly new to Linux and today I’ll be setting up Ubuntu for the first time.I’m currently on Linux Mint, but I’ve been running into ongoing issues there specifically, I can’t get ROCm to work reliably.My goal is to run and test smaller local AI models. Claude suggested the following setup:OS: Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTSROCm: 7.2Frameworks: PyTorch + ONNX RuntimeUI: ComfyUISetup:GPU: RX 9060 XT (16 GB VRAM)CPU: Ryzen 5 9600XDoes anyone have experience with this or a similar setup?I’m mainly interested in ROCm stability on Ubuntu and whether this configuration works well in practice, or if there are known issues I should be aware of.Thanks
Fixing Ubuntu 25.10 and 24 Crashes on Lock Screen – Turns Out It Was a Dash-to-Panel Extension Fixing Ubuntu 25.10 and 24 Crashes on Lock Screen – Turns Out It Was a Dash-to-Panel Extensionu/Bug2040•7 days agoFixing Ubuntu 25.10 and 24 Crashes on Lock Screen – Turns Out It Was a Dash-to-Panel ExtensionHey everyone,I was facing random crashes whenever I tried to lock my screen on Ubuntu 25.10. It drove me nuts! 🫠After some troubleshooting, I discovered the culprit: certain GNOME extensions I had installed, specificallyDash-to-Dashand a blur effect extension.Once I removed these, everything went back to normal – lock screen works perfectly, no crashes, and the desktop feels stable again.If anyone else is experiencing similar lock screen crashes, check your extensions before diving into deeper system debugging. Sometimes it’s just a small tweak!SO:Lock screen crashes? Disable Dash-to-Dash & blur extensions. ✅
(Needed warning that I'm a noobie) How can I add a Appimage onto my desktop (Needed warning that I'm a noobie) How can I add a Appimage onto my desktopu/Longjumping-Time-339•7 days ago(Needed warning that I'm a noobie) How can I add a Appimage onto my desktopI would like to have a double clickable appimage on my desktop, I was able to install appimagelauncher and now the icon and double click works but how can I now add it onto my desktop.Sorry for the maybe dumb question, I apriciate any help
Just installed Ubuntu on the old man's MacBook Air, need some help! Just installed Ubuntu on the old man's MacBook Air, need some help!u/moaboaa•9 hr. agoJust installed Ubuntu on the old man's MacBook Air, need some help!The install went pretty smoothly, but i had to do a lot of stuff in the terminal (went back to older kernel) in order to get the wifi-driver working.Now, everything basically works fine but the audio is off. Distorted, no depth and seems to be mostly coming from the right speaker.Speakers were completely fine before the install.Is there an actual fix for this? Should i try a different distro that maybe comes with better support for Mac drivers and hardware?Because, this is basically the only thing he really needs in order for it to be working so he can watch his videos, listen to his podcasts etc.These are the specs:*Hardware Model:*Apple Inc. MacBookAir7,2 **Memory:*8.0 GiB **Processor:*Intel® Core™ i5-5350U × 4 **Graphics:*Intel® HD Graphics 6000 (BDW GT3) **Disk Capacity:*121.3 GB ## Software Information: **Firmware Version:*430.140.3.0.0 **OS Name:*Ubuntu 24.04.4 LTS **OS Build:*(null) **OS Type:*64-bit **GNOME Version:*46 **Windowing System:*Wayland **Kernel Version:*Linux 6.8.0-100-genericThank you!
Alienware m16 R2 battery deep discharged to 0% in 40 minutes with lid closed (Ubuntu, s2idle) — is the battery salvageable? Alienware m16 R2 battery deep discharged to 0% in 40 minutes with lid closed (Ubuntu, s2idle) — is the battery salvageable?u/SillyCompany•11 hr. agoAlienware m16 R2 battery deep discharged to 0% in 40 minutes with lid closed (Ubuntu, s2idle) — is the battery salvageable?Alienware m16 R2 battery deep discharged to 0% in 40 minutes with lid closed (Ubuntu, s2idle) — is the battery salvageable?r/computers•11 hr. agoAlienware m16 R2 battery deep discharged to 0% in 40 minutes with lid closed (Ubuntu, s2idle) — is the battery salvageable?Closed my lid for about 40 minutes, came back to a completely dead laptop. Battery went into deep discharge — currently showing 0 Wh, 0%, and 9.163V (dangerously low for a 4S Li-Po, that's ~2.3V per cell). Had to plug in to get it to boot again.System details:- Laptop: Alienware m16 R2- CPU: Intel Core Ultra 9 185H (Meteor Lake)- GPU: Intel Arc iGPU + NVIDIA RTX 4070 Max-Q- RAM: 32 GB- Battery: 88 Wh design capacity, 66.35 Wh actual (75% health, 67 cycles)- OS: Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTS- Kernel: 6.14.0-37-generic- BIOS: 1.16.0 (2025-09-22)- Sleep mode: s2idle (modern standby / S0ix) — deep (S3) is not available- logind.conf: all defaults (no custom lid/sleep overrides)The problem: Linux is using s2idle instead of deep S3 sleep. With the Meteor Lake platform + NVIDIA dGPU, modern standby on Linux is basically a power-hungry idle state. Something (likely the NVIDIA GPU or other devices) isn't entering low power properly during s2idle, causing massive drain. The previous boot journal confirms the system just ran until the battery died, then did a full shutdown sequence — it never truly slept.My questions:Is this battery salvageable? After deep discharging to 9.163V (~2.3V/cell), is the battery permanently damaged or can it recover to normal capacity?If I buy a replacement battery, won't the same thing happen again? Since deep (S3) sleep isn't available in the firmware and s2idle drains the battery this fast, a new battery would just get destroyed the same way the next time I close the lid.Isn't this frankly unacceptable? A software/firmware sleep implementation is actively causing hardware damage. Closing a laptop lid is the most basic, expected use case, and it's destroying batteries. This feels like something Dell/Intel needs to own and fix — the OS's sleep path should never be able to deep discharge and permanently damage a battery.Has anyone found a reliable workaround for s2idle drain on Meteor Lake under Linux, or is hibernate the only real option?1upvote·2comments
My Ubuntu Desktop My Ubuntu Desktopu/Lost-Nature-1841•15 days agoMy Ubuntu Desktop
24.04 Dock: Make a Window Visible on All Workspaces? 24.04 Dock: Make a Window Visible on All Workspaces?u/DBooth-Boston•11 hr. ago24.04 Dock: Make a Window Visible on All Workspaces?I have 4 fixed workspaces.  I want my Thunderbird email window (and a few others) visible on *all* of my workspaces (though sometimes minimized).  This used to be easy to do, by right-clicking on the window in the taskbar, and selecting "Always on Visible Workspace".  But the Multitasking settings that are available -- "Include apps from all workspaces" and "Include apps from the current workspace only" -- only seem to affect the list of apps shown in the dock.How do I make a window available on *all* workspaces, without starting multiple instances of the application?
Boot Freeze on Dell Latitude 5400 After GRUB Menu Boot Freeze on Dell Latitude 5400 After GRUB Menuu/fuckedtwotimes•7 days agoBoot Freeze on Dell Latitude 5400 After GRUB MenuAfter the grub menu the boot freezes with the dell logo and this text at the top.EFI stub: Loaded initrd from LINUX_INITRD_MEDIA_GUID device path EFI stub: Measured initrd data into PCR 9.Right now the only ways I can access the PC is through recovery mode or settings acpi=off in the grub menu.Adding the acpi=off and changed RAID TO AHCI because Ubuntu refuses to install disables my Intel uhd graphics and it's extremely lagging.System Info: Model: Dell Latitude 5400 Processor: Intel Core i7-8365U CPU @ 1.80GHz RAM: 16 GB DDR4 Storage: 1 TB NVME SSD Graphics: Intel UHD GraphicsAny solution?
Sharing USB Drives Across a Network Sharing USB Drives Across a Networku/jreynolds676•7 days agoSharing USB Drives Across a NetworkI am trying to set up a workstation that is for ingesting media files to various systems in my broadcast facility. I would like to set up a way for a drive to be associated with a USB port, for example USB 1 goes to an Ingest 1 folder, then that ingest 1 folder be accessible over the network. I have managed to get the drive mount point correct, but sharing the folder over the network is working inconsistently at best, with often 5+ minutes before SMB refreshes. The shares seem to drop out whenever a device is plugged or unplugged, and samba does not push file changes accurately. Any ideas as to how this can be achieved?
Do we have an ETA on the repo kernel fix? Do we have an ETA on the repo kernel fix?u/tmpkn•8 days agoDo we have an ETA on the repo kernel fix?Due to the kernel repo fcukup all our processes which rely on online ubuntu installations are currently kaput. Has this happened before? How quickly can we expect a fix?Refhttps://askubuntu.com/questions/1563603/issues-updating-kernel-to-6-8-0-100-24-04/1563605
Screen resolution problem with Ubuntu 24.04 Screen resolution problem with Ubuntu 24.04u/pegenaute229•7 days agoScreen resolution problem with Ubuntu 24.04I just installed Ubuntu 24.04 and everything is perfect, except that it won't let me increase the screen resolution, and of course, the screen size is a bit small. Can anyone help me?
24.04.3 finally running natively on my laptop! 24.04.3 finally running natively on my laptop!u/SH0080•13 days ago24.04.3 finally running natively on my laptop!
F... it! I don't want to hop no more! I hope I don't need to. F... it! I don't want to hop no more! I hope I don't need to.u/PotentialStation6224•19 days agoF... it! I don't want to hop no more! I hope I don't need to.
Losing the will to live with these errors, can anyone help me fix it? Losing the will to live with these errors, can anyone help me fix it?u/Sway_RL•8 days agoLosing the will to live with these errors, can anyone help me fix it?Logged in to my server as I do every month to update. Instead i'm getting these errors.Ubuntu version is 24.04.3 LTS ServerKernel version is 6.14.0-37-genericBelow is the output/error(s)sudo apt updateHit:1 http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu noble InRelease Hit:2 http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu noble-updates InRelease Hit:3 http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu noble-backports InRelease Hit:4 http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu noble-security InRelease Hit:5 https://download.mono-project.com/repo/ubuntu stable-focal InRelease Hit:6 https://esm.ubuntu.com/apps/ubuntu noble-apps-security InRelease Hit:7 https://esm.ubuntu.com/apps/ubuntu noble-apps-updates InRelease Hit:8 https://esm.ubuntu.com/infra/ubuntu noble-infra-security InRelease Hit:9 https://esm.ubuntu.com/infra/ubuntu noble-infra-updates InRelease Hit:10 https://repo.jellyfin.org/ubuntu noble InRelease Hit:11 https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu noble InRelease Reading package lists... Building dependency tree... Reading state information... 6 packages can be upgraded. Run 'apt list --upgradable' to see them.All seems fine so far..sudo apt list --upgradableListing... libboost-iostreams1.83.0/noble-updates 1.83.0-2.1ubuntu3.2 amd64 [upgradable from: 1.83.0-2.1ubuntu3.1] libboost-locale1.83.0/noble-updates 1.83.0-2.1ubuntu3.2 amd64 [upgradable from: 1.83.0-2.1ubuntu3.1] libboost-thread1.83.0/noble-updates 1.83.0-2.1ubuntu3.2 amd64 [upgradable from: 1.83.0-2.1ubuntu3.1] linux-generic/noble-updates 6.8.0-100.100 amd64 [upgradable from: 6.8.0-94.96] linux-headers-generic/noble-updates 6.8.0-100.100 amd64 [upgradable from: 6.8.0-94.96] linux-image-generic/noble-updates 6.8.0-100.100 amd64 [upgradable from: 6.8.0-94.96]Still OK.sudo apt dist-upgradeBuilding dependency tree... Reading state information... Calculating upgrade... The following upgrades have been deferred due to phasing:   libboost-iostreams1.83.0 libboost-locale1.83.0 libboost-thread1.83.0 The following packages have been kept back:   linux-generic linux-headers-generic linux-image-generic 0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 6 not upgraded. 4 not fully installed or removed. After this operation, 0 B of additional disk space will be used. Do you want to continue? [Y/n] Setting up linux-image-6.17.0-14-generic (6.17.0-14.14~24.04.1) ... Setting up linux-headers-6.17.0-14-generic (6.17.0-14.14~24.04.1) ... /etc/kernel/header_postinst.d/dkms:  * dkms: running auto installation service for kernel 6.17.0-14-generic Sign command: /usr/bin/kmodsign Signing key: /var/lib/shim-signed/mok/MOK.priv Public certificate (MOK): /var/lib/shim-signed/mok/MOK.der  Building module: Cleaning build area... make -j16 KERNELRELEASE=6.17.0-14-generic -j16 -C /lib/modules/6.17.0-14-generic/build M=/var/lib/dkms/blksnap/6.3.2.1207/build modules...(bad exit status: 2) ERROR: Cannot create report: [Errno 17] File exists: '/var/crash/blksnap.0.crash' Error! Bad return status for module build on kernel: 6.17.0-14-generic (x86_64) Consult /var/lib/dkms/blksnap/6.3.2.1207/build/make.log for more information. dkms autoinstall on 6.17.0-14-generic/x86_64 failed for blksnap(10) Error! One or more modules failed to install during autoinstall. Refer to previous errors for more information.  * dkms: autoinstall for kernel 6.17.0-14-generic    ...fail! run-parts: /etc/kernel/header_postinst.d/dkms exited with return code 11 dpkg: error processing package linux-headers-6.17.0-14-generic (--configure):  installed linux-headers-6.17.0-14-generic package post-installation script subprocess returned error exit status 11 dpkg: dependency problems prevent configuration of linux-headers-generic-hwe-24.04:  linux-headers-generic-hwe-24.04 depends on linux-headers-6.17.0-14-generic; however:   Package linux-headers-6.17.0-14-generic is not configured yet.  dpkg: error processing package linux-headers-generic-hwe-24.04 (--configure):  dependency problems - leaving unconfigured dpkg: dependency problems prevent configuration of linux-generic-hwe-24.04:  linux-generic-hwe-24.04 depends on linux-headers-generic-hwe-24.04 (= 6.17.0-14.14~24.04.1); however:   Package linux-headers-generic-hwe-24.04 is not configured yet.  dpkg: error processing package linux-generic-hwe-24.04 (--configure):  dependency problems - leaving unconfigured Processing triggers for linux-image-6.17.0-14-generic (6.17.0-14.14~24.04.1) ... /etc/kernel/postinst.d/dkms:  * dkms: running auto installation service for kernel 6.17.0-14-generic Sign command: /usr/bin/kmodsign Signing key: /var/lib/shim-signed/mok/MOK.priv Public certificate (MOK): /var/lib/shim-signed/mok/MOK.der  Building module: Cleaning build area... make -j16 KERNELRELEASE=6.17.0-14-generic -j16 -C /lib/modules/6.17.0-14-generic/build M=/var/lib/dkms/blksnap/6.3.2.1207/build modules...(bad exit status: 2) ERROR: Cannot create report: [Errno 17] File exists: '/var/crash/blksnap.0.crash' Error! Bad return status for module build on kernel: 6.17.0-14-generic (x86_64) Consult /var/lib/dkms/blksnap/6.3.2.1207/build/make.log for more information. dkms autoinstall on 6.17.0-14-generic/x86_64 failed for blksnap(10) Error! One or more modules failed to install during autoinstall. Refer to previous errors for more information.  * dkms: autoinstall for kernel 6.17.0-14-generic    ...fail! run-parts: /etc/kernel/postinst.d/dkms exited with return code 11 dpkg: error processing package linux-image-6.17.0-14-generic (--configure):  installed linux-image-6.17.0-14-generic package post-installation script subprocess returned error exit status 11 Errors were encountered while processing:  linux-headers-6.17.0-14-generic  linux-headers-generic-hwe-24.04  linux-generic-hwe-24.04  linux-image-6.17.0-14-genericAny help would be greatly appreciated as i'm close to reinstalling at this point.TYIA
Finally decided to customize my desktop Finally decided to customize my desktopu/hassansaleh31•17 days agoFinally decided to customize my desktop
Another window refugee here. From Fedora to Ubuntu. Another window refugee here. From Fedora to Ubuntu.u/Ina-Bahalkii•6 days agoAnother window refugee here. From Fedora to Ubuntu.I have an old and working computer that was made useless by Microsoft. I have tried Linux before many years ago, Ubuntu to be specific... and i didn't like it at all and went back to my working windows.Well now I didn't have a choice to go back so i started researching the different flavors of Linux.I already had the "bad" experience with Ubuntu so i didn't even look at it + the not so good reputation it had online added to my avoidance of it. Fedora and mint had such a good reputation online and so looking at them i didn't like mint so I had just one choice left. Fedora 43.I liked it very much but about a month in, the bugs or maybe lack of Linux knowledge started catching me. My apps refuse to open, mouse pointer disappears, can't download apps, filesystem becomes read only.. I was overwhelmed and my work got interrupted.The up to date and modern stuff that attracted me quickly went down in priority. So what I am looking for is now stability as priority nr 1. That is when Ubuntu came back into the conversation.I downloaded it, and I am extremely surprised at how modern it looks. I don't see much difference between it and fedora and so far it works perfectly.I just hope the bugs doesn't start here too. So i won't celebrate too early. I already have my next one if this one too starts going crazy and that is Debian 13.Maybe this is all a skill issue or maybe my old computer Is finished but hopefully Ubuntu keeps working and that way i will get my answers.One thing is for sure. Microsoft can go to hell
Finally, I finished the Ubuntu Touch-based launcher for devices that don't have root access, so they can get a feel for what it would be like to use the system, or even for those who don't want to root their device. Finally, I finished the Ubuntu Touch-based launcher for devices that don't have root access, so they can get a feel for what it would be like to use the system, or even for those who don't want to root their device.u/Salty_Frosting_5908•27 days agoFinally, I finished the Ubuntu Touch-based launcher for devices that don't have root access, so they can get a feel for what it would be like to use the system, or even for those who don't want to root their device.
What made you use ubuntu? What made you use ubuntu?u/pump717•4 days agoWhat made you use ubuntu?
my ubuntu desktop my ubuntu desktopu/VariationFluffy3271•19 days agomy ubuntu desktop
Installing another Python version without breaking system Python Installing another Python version without breaking system Pythonu/matti07tech•11 hr. agoInstalling another Python version without breaking system PythonLong story short, I have Ubuntu 25.10, that comes with Py 3.13 as default. I am using a program that needs Py 3.12 to run, so I was told to install alongside the system python and install it in a venv. Cool, however I don't want to break anything, as I am a beginner with Linux and that would be a pain.AI tells me to use the Deadsnake PPA to install(sudo apt install python3.12 python3.12-venv), after adding PPA.The create the venv and pip install the program inside of it.But is this safe? Before doing anything I want to be sure.
Black screen then reboot after log in. Black screen then reboot after log in.u/AluminumHaste•7 days agoBlack screen then reboot after log in.Last night I was playing a few games then walked away from the computer. It went into sleep mode. When I tried resuming from sleep by moving the mouse, the computer fans turned on, black screen then reboot.I get back to the log in page as normal, but now, black screen then after 30-40 seconds the computer reboots.I can log into my profile if I log in from recovery, all my files are there, but stuck in 800x600 mode.Tried running update and upgrade, tried going back to previous kernel etc.I've read online that this is caused by corrupt user settings but I removed those config but no change.EDIT: Created a new Admin user account, same problem. All user accounts are affected.I really don't want to reinstall Ubuntu, any other suggestions?EDIT: I guess I should post specs.Computer is a desktop, custom build.CPU: Ryzen 5800X3DRAM: 32GB DDR4 G.skillGPU: Radeon 7900XTX MesaOperating System: Kubuntu 25.10KDE Plasma Version: 6.4.5KDE Frameworks Version: 6.17.0Qt Version: 6.9.2Kernel Version: 6.18.7-061807-generic (64-bit)Graphics Platform: WaylandProcessors: 16 × AMD Ryzen 7 5800X3D 8-Core ProcessorMemory: 32 GiB of RAM (31.3 GiB usable)Graphics Processor: llvmpipe
I'm new to Ubuntu, any advice? I'm new to Ubuntu, any advice?u/Mountain_Hippo7575•4 days agoI'm new to Ubuntu, any advice?Hi, I'm new to Linux Ubuntu. I switched because Windows 11 was driving me crazy, and I'm really enjoying Ubuntu. As someone who loves development, I'm having a blast! Do you have any advice for me, applications to install, commands to use, settings, etc.?I'm open to all ideas, thanks! 😁
Issues using a digital certificate token Issues using a digital certificate tokenu/No_Neighborhood_8896•12 hr. agoIssues using a digital certificate tokenI have been trying to set up a digital certificate to use, but Firefox simply doesn't recognize it.I've installed the driver package (GD Starsign) for my version (24.04) and it didn't work. Some tutorials claim it's because snap Firefox can't see thelibaetkpkss.so, and then I tried putting the .deb Firefox directly from Mozilla but that doesn't work as well.Tokenadmin, the software that manages it, is recognizing the certificate. Also, I installed an extension called Websigner and that extension as well is recognizing the certificate, but it doesn't show in Firefox Certificates database, which means other applications won't find them, like Okular, which is the main use of this certificate (to sign PDF files).I tried many tutorials, and every step has been done properly. The driver is properly installed, the software finds the USB token, the browser extension (paired with its own .deb package) finds the token and prompts me for the password, and it runs properly.But it doesn't show in the certificates database.The two ways it supposedly would find the certificate after it was properly set up would be:Through tokenadmin, which has an option for "Install token on Firefox". Didn't work.Trying to add it and pointing Firefox to that file, which ends up requesting a password. I've tried both the Token PIN and my own admin password, but neither worked.Unsure how to fix any of this.Currently running Ubuntu Budgie 24.04.3. I have installed and used this same token in Mint and also in many versions of Fedora, using their rpm package instead. Even running through distrobox, never had issues.
How do I change this button's keybind in the top left? How do I change this button's keybind in the top left?u/Midnight-Galaxy•5 days agoHow do I change this button's keybind in the top left?
Should I switch to Ubuntu? Or should I stick with Windows 11? Should I switch to Ubuntu? Or should I stick with Windows 11?u/v10aT•7 days agoShould I switch to Ubuntu? Or should I stick with Windows 11?I'm only in high school, and I don't need any more Windows applications. For example, Office is a paid program, but I have it on Linux as LibreOffice, and the games I play are Roblox on Sober. What do you recommend? I want to continue experimenting with Ubuntu.
When did Ubuntu become such a mess!? When did Ubuntu become such a mess!?u/NothingButTheDude•7 days agoWhen did Ubuntu become such a mess!?I used to LOVE installing Ubuntu, although the last few jobs had me on Macs, but now I wanted to configure some AI machines on a fairly good ASUS laptop.Right out the gate : brand new install, latest Ubuntu, snap installed ollama and open-webuiFor "reasons" open-webui cannot connect to ollama. Compltely broken. I get the snap has poor votes, but who the heck allowed it onto the Snap repo in the first place?unclear how to start the service, stop the service. Base install already had ollama installed, does the snap version overwrite it? Either way, impossible to get ollama running via apt or snap.service start ollama and snap start ollama seem to not co-exist well. Continual complaints about "snap runs in a sandbox so limitations when you install npm" etc etc etcSo sad to see the lack of polish. :(fwiw I am a tech professional, I know my way around these things, but even for me this is unusable.I will try a debian image to see if its any better, but Ubuntu has just degraded into a ball of duct-tape and egos with too many conflicting package managers and opinionated systems that cannot wrk together.To calm myself I will try and install NVIDIA drivers :)
Ubuntu desktop vs server for PiHole Ubuntu desktop vs server for PiHoleu/TrampledFrights•13 hr. agoUbuntu desktop vs server for PiHoleI was torn as to where to post this (r/ubuntuvsr/pihole) but I think that this might be the right place.  I have a old Intel NUC that I have installed Ubuntu desktop on so that it can run a PiHole.  I've gotten it set up and working but now am wondering if there is any reason to reinstall it on Ubuntu server.  The NUC is only being used as a PiHole, the device has no other use other than this.
partitionnement avec gparted partitionnement avec gpartedu/Jumpy_Umpire5221•7 days agopartitionnement avec gpartedj'ai installé ubuntu sur un disque de 500 gio de la manière suivanteune partition fat32 boot/efi de 1.05 gioune partition ext 4 de 475.89 gioune partition ext 4 /media/lemiere de 1.00 mioles trois partitions ont une cadenasgparted me refuse le redimentionnement de ma partition  de 475.89 gio
annoying artefacts in only FIles after wake from suspend annoying artefacts in only FIles after wake from suspendu/IceSafe2190•7 days agoannoying artefacts in only FIles after wake from suspendannoying artefacts in FIles after wake from suspend - i have to close all windows. Is there way how to prevent it? Running Ubuntu 24.04.3
I'm new to this Help I'm new to this Helpu/cyberpanda1240•2 days agoI'm new to this Help
Local fuel pump running ubuntu Local fuel pump running ubuntuu/mrtomtomplay•1 mo. agoLocal fuel pump running ubuntu
Ubuntu shows black screen after grub Ubuntu shows black screen after grubu/fuckedtwotimes•5 days agoUbuntu shows black screen after grub
What's one thing you think users should learn after getting past the beginner stage of Linux? What's one thing you think users should learn after getting past the beginner stage of Linux?u/YourItalianScallion•4 days agoWhat's one thing you think users should learn after getting past the beginner stage of Linux?I've been using Ubuntu for a couple of weeks now and really love it. I learned the basics of installing programs via the terminal, and am at a level where I can do all of the things most people can do with their operating system. But I know there's so much more to learn about Linux, I just don't know what I should dive into next!
Wird in Kernel 6.18.x irgendwann das Intel-WLAN funktionieren? Wird in Kernel 6.18.x irgendwann das Intel-WLAN funktionieren?u/Nearby_Wolf3307•7 days agoWird in Kernel 6.18.x irgendwann das Intel-WLAN funktionieren?Wird in Kernel 6.18.x irgendwann das Intel-WLAN funktionieren?r/linuxdeutschland•7 days agoWird in Kernel 6.18.x irgendwann das Intel-WLAN funktionieren?Intel‑WLAN (BE200/AX411‑Familie)funktioniert leider nicht. Dafür aber das Touchpad endlich vom HONOR Magicbook Art14. Nur schade, dass man dann keinen Internetzugang hat....Wann werden die Treiber dafür inkludiert?8upvotes·5comments
I want to install project reality, stalker anomaly and mods for new vegas in ubuntu, how i do that? I want to install project reality, stalker anomaly and mods for new vegas in ubuntu, how i do that?u/Mr-Ciudadano•8 days agoI want to install project reality, stalker anomaly and mods for new vegas in ubuntu, how i do that?
I have just installed Ubuntu on my legacy laptop and desktop I have just installed Ubuntu on my legacy laptop and desktopu/AirRaid2010•5 days agoI have just installed Ubuntu on my legacy laptop and desktopI kinda feel relieved now. I don't know why but it feels just greater than when I bought a new Windows computer.
Snap question again.. Snap question again..u/androgeninc•6 days agoSnap question again..I don't really have a dog in the fight regarding Snap vs everything else. I'm just happy if stuff works ok. But, a lot (if not all) of the apps installed through Snap seems really laggy. Everything from Ghostty to Libreoffice to Transmission to VScode. Takes forever to open and fan starts taking off, often even when programs are idle in backgroudn.I'm wondering how I'm supposed to deal with it? Should i try to figure out what's wrong, and maybe try to fix it, or should i just install stuff through other sources?
Ubuntu broke updates 25.10 Ubuntu broke updates 25.10u/Kalixttt•1 day agoUbuntu broke updates 25.10I’run into unpleasant situation today, my kernel was updated through software updates. I’ve seen sys icon, there are updates ready OKAY, lets install. When I restarted machine I had only 720x460 or something like that. It was caused by nvidia drivers, which haven’t been built to corresponding kernel version.I know that kernel cares only about itself thats fine, but ubuntu as a distro should’t make your pc unsable just because it’s good to have latest staff.I used prompt engineering and figured out the best way for now is just hold kernel updates and wait for new nvidia drivers to build against new kernel ? But this can take some time, if its ever gonna happen.How do you deal with this ? What is the least painless solution to this problem. I had snapshot before the update, but someone else is having this exact issue without backups for sure.
HDD filesytem corruption repeatedly, but no badblocks errors or SMART erros HDD filesytem corruption repeatedly, but no badblocks errors or SMART errosu/Grubzer•13 hr. agoHDD filesytem corruption repeatedly, but no badblocks errors or SMART errosI have an old pc im trying to revive, and i used its HDD (Seagate barracuda) for /home partition (the root drive is an nvme, seems to hold perfectly with no errors). So far it has given me a filesystem corruption twice winthin two days (i was mainly downloading a big torrent for that time), where /home went readonly, and then i could not login, sometimes going straight to emergency mode. journalctl showed write errors on a few blocks both times.After the first time i checked SMART attributes and performed a long test - both were ok: 0 reallocated/pending sectors, giant (millions) numbers for raw ECC errors and some other items, but i read that it is normal for seagate drives, and drive has 9700 hours power-on and heads in flight. The only weird thing is that UDMA crc shows 148 raw - so i decided to replace the SATA cable and change the port after the second corruption. Could this be the culprit?After second corruption, i ran fsck with non-destructive badblocks (fsck -fccky) but it didnt find any bad blocks - dumpe2fs -b just printed program version, so i assume badblocks didnt find anythingI decided to nuke the installation and check with destructive badblocks -wsv, it is running still, but no errors so farI know the best solution is to get a new drive, but i really (partially as personal excersize) want to try to fix this one. What confuses me, is that errors only seem to show up when drive is used "for real", and disappear in any kinds of tests
Having problem Helpppp!! Having problem Helpppp!!u/s_TrAnG__E•8 days agoHaving problem Helpppp!!I have installed ubuntu 25.10 on my samsung galaxybook 5. I am having issues with fingerprint ubuntu is not recognising it ,also the keybind for screen brightness not working.I have been looking for the solution for past 15 days.
Long term review of Ubuntu, as a Dentist who uses Linux all the time Long term review of Ubuntu, as a Dentist who uses Linux all the timeu/6tBF4Cg4qqAAZA•14 days agoLong term review of Ubuntu, as a Dentist who uses Linux all the timeFor the past 3 or maybe 4 years, I have been using Ubuntu as my main and only operating system, for everything! Which includes, completing a Master Thesis, using LIbreOffice and Zotero. Zoom and Teams for the meetings. And most recently, using specialized software for dental digital planning, using Bottles.My only issue so far, is the performance of the Nvidia GPU under Wayland and specially under Bottles. Which to be fair, is nothing new. We all know about that already.But the point of the post is to highlight that Linux is ready for serious work.The laptop is a Lenovo Legion with a Ryzen 9 5900hx, with a Nvidia RTX 3080 (16 gb of vram), running Ubuntu 25.10 on Wayland.My only suggestion is that Canonical should either support Bottles or make their own (and improved) version of it. Since that is essential to run Native Windows Applications, using the GPU and setting the shared folders.
Set pavucontrol to open minimized at start? Set pavucontrol to open minimized at start?u/vodka_buddha•8 days agoSet pavucontrol to open minimized at start?I've got pavucontrol set to open at start (25.10), but it appears in a window in the middle of the screen after I log in. I'd like it to open minimized instead. Some online suggestions involve editing the .desktop file but it doesn't seem to have one that I can find, at least not in the usual places. How can I accomplish this?Thank you!
How to create an OEM install medium? How to create an OEM install medium?u/lisael_•8 days agoHow to create an OEM install medium?Context: My company has a stock of Win10 laptops that they want to refurbish with Ubuntu so they can be sold.I'm tasked to create an install medium that will be run on the hardware in our warehouse. It should install the system with minimal human interaction, ideally plug, start, wait, stop, unplug.autoinstall.yamlis the way to go, I think I can figure it out.However the requirement is that the auto install don't create a (permanent) user, but the user is created by the customer on first boot (along with timezone, locales...). I can't find any options in the standard installer for this. This feature is in the wishlist of Calamares, but not worked on yet.Am I missing something in the standard installer? Is there another installer that could do that?There are other ways to go:burning the install medium on a partition, and the user will run a full install on first boot (the install partition can be recycled as swap space on reboot, or simply added to the LVM array)the installer creates a throwaway user, that auto logins on first boot too let the final user setting things up. This requires a whole lot of custom code to create a wizard and setup things. Is there an existing project for this?Edit: because I know the hardware ahead of time, the simple path is to install a functioning system, install Gnome Initial Setup, delete the user and create an image of the whole disk. Then, I can use tools like clonezilla to clone the disks to the laptops. Thanksr/linux4noobsfor this obvious idea :)
Rapid Screen blinking whilst trying out Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTS Rapid Screen blinking whilst trying out Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTSu/SkyeJoness•1 day agoRapid Screen blinking whilst trying out Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTS
I built a Linux app to control Razer Blade laptops - fan curves, power profiles, RGB, battery health - no kernel modules needed! I built a Linux app to control Razer Blade laptops - fan curves, power profiles, RGB, battery health - no kernel modules needed!u/EuropeanPepe•8 days agoI built a Linux app to control Razer Blade laptops - fan curves, power profiles, RGB, battery health - no kernel modules needed!I built a Linux app to control Razer Blade laptops - fan curves, power profiles, RGB, battery health - no kernel modules needed!r/razer•8 days agoI built a Linux app to control Razer Blade laptops - fan curves, power profiles, RGB, battery health - no kernel modules needed!Hey everyone! 👋I've been working onRazer Control Revived- a Linux userspace tool for Razer Blade laptops. If you've ever been frustrated trying to get proper fan/power control on your Razer laptop in Linux, this might help!What it doesFan Control- Auto mode or set specific RPM (no more jet engine sounds!)Power Profiles- Balanced, Gaming, Creator, Silent, or CustomCPU/GPU Boost- Fine-tune performance levelsBattery Health Optimizer- Limit charge to 50-80% to extend battery lifespanLogo LED- Off, On, or BreathingKeyboard RGB- Brightness and effects (Static, Wave, Breathing, Spectrum)Modern GTK4 GUI- With separate AC/Battery profiles that auto-switchNo DKMS/kernel modules required!Pure userspace via hidraw.ScreenshotsaboveDownloadsGitHub ReleasesFedora/RHEL:sudo dnf install ./razercontrol-0.2.0-1.fc43.x86_64.rpmUbuntu/Debian/Pop-OS: .deb package in releases you can install it via GUI.Other distros:AppImage or tarball (daemon needs system install, GUI is portable)AppImage you can basically launch it with one click :)NixOS FlakeSupported modelsBlade 14/15/16/17, Blade Pro, Blade Stealth, Razer Book 13, and the newBlade 16 2025. Full list on GitHub.KDE usersThere's also aKDE Plasma 6 widgetfor quick panel access!This started as a fork of the abandoned razer-laptop-control project. I've added the GUI, new device support, and packaging.Would love feedback, bug reports, or PRs! If you have a Razer laptop model I haven't tested, let me know if it works.GitHub:https://github.com/encomjp/razer-control-revived46upvotes·16comments
Sober not starting Sober not startingu/papashok228•7 days agoSober not starting
How can I run this app as sudo in the Startup Applications app? How can I run this app as sudo in the Startup Applications app?u/Apostle_1882•3 days agoHow can I run this app as sudo in the Startup Applications app?
I'm using Ubuntu. I'm using Ubuntu.u/IsHyperactive_•13 hr. agoI'm using Ubuntu.
Auto-install and mirrors Auto-install and mirrorsu/Conscious-Ball8373•8 days agoAuto-install and mirrorsI've got a script which can provision a VM from an Ubuntu server ISO.  It generates a cloud-config user-data file, packs it into an ISO and uses virt-install to kick off the VM.  This has been working reliably for a while now.Today it broke.  On digging around into why, it seems the kernel is uninstallable.  Thelinux-image-genericpackage declares a dependency onlinux-image-6.8.0-100-genericbut this package does not appear to exist, or possibly has non-existent dependencies itself, such aslinux-modules-extra-6.8.0-100-generic.Digging around online suggests that this is just what happens when a new kernel version is released and the mirror is in the middle of updating, leaving it in an inconsistent state, possibly for several hours.  I haven't attempted to set the mirror in my user-data file and it picks the nearest one, which happens to be gb.archive.ubuntu.com.Really?  There are just random patches of several hours where installing a machine from a mirror will just fail?  Does Canonical not make any attempt to produce consistent snapshots on its mirrors?Is there a way to do this that doesn't run the risk of it randomly failing like this?
Browser windows not showing (Wayland, Ubuntu) Browser windows not showing (Wayland, Ubuntu)u/Extreme-Coffee7608•17 hr. agoBrowser windows not showing (Wayland, Ubuntu)I recently switched to Linux in an attempt to escape from Windows crashes, and I chose Ubuntu, as it's the distro I'm most familiar with, but I've ran into my own problems here.I decided to make use of the wide customization Linux has so I installed the extension manager. The first thing I tried to custom was the toolbar, I wanted it to look like in MacOS, but it won't overlap the windows behind. Instead whatever windows is behind will get shrank, making it look weird. It's worth mentioning that I haven't even downloaded a user-created extension, I'm testing the system extensions for now.Also, browser windows have some sort of delay when showing up in the toolbar. I've tested it with Brave and Edge and it happens with both. After some research I realized it has something to do with the display manager (or at least I think so).It's kind of annoying looking it up in the toolbar when it's not there, and I have looked for someone with the same problem but haven't found it.I would appreciate any sort of answer. Thank you :)
It’s been two weeks since I moved to Ubuntu and I am loving it so much. It’s been two weeks since I moved to Ubuntu and I am loving it so much.u/jejerome002•18 days agoIt’s been two weeks since I moved to Ubuntu and I am loving it so much.
French gendarmes are using Ubuntu French gendarmes are using Ubuntuu/JohnDuffyDuff•1 mo. agoFrench gendarmes are using Ubuntu
Just customized my Ubuntu Linux Just customized my Ubuntu Linuxu/HappyWindowsUser•1 mo. agoJust customized my Ubuntu Linux
Why are my fonts broken Why are my fonts brokenu/talexbatreddit•7 days agoWhy are my fonts broken
Ubuntu login script? Ubuntu login script?u/SmoothRunnings•8 days agoUbuntu login script?I am running Ubuntu Server, either the latest version or previous version. We use it for our intranet website that doesn't get any external acces. It  run a web application that we built.The server is running gnome.I would like to have a log in script start up in terminal when the system starts an logs in with the web admin, that starts the web services. I tried doing this a long time ago was told I need to create a .sh file wit what I want it to do then add it to the gnome xwindows Startup Applications. I tried this but it kept failing.Not sure what to do?So, this is what I need it to do.cd /home/devteam/Inetpub/wwwpovsource venv/bin/activatepython3dashapp.pyThe Startup Applications had this link setup.gnome-termainal -c "~/start-pov.sh; exce bash"And this needs to run in a terminal screen so anyone of the mins can log in and check if needed.Thanks,
My Ubuntu Desktop, configured to how I like it My Ubuntu Desktop, configured to how I like itu/CosmicKangar00•1 mo. agoMy Ubuntu Desktop, configured to how I like it
Any help for ROOTING my RM 11 pro is appreciated [Help] Any help for ROOTING my RM 11 pro is appreciated [Help]u/Forward_Compute001•8 days agoAny help for ROOTING my RM 11 pro is appreciated [Help]I got myself a Redmagic 11 pro in order to run a fully functional Linux VM. (And rooting it is the only viable option)The Plan is: -Rooting my RM 11 pro (I'm stuck here for 3 days now) -Installing a hypervisor (Qemu/KVM) with which I can fully manage the VM -Installing a full Ubuntu Server (minimal Ubuntu) -AND all the rest (X11, WM Manager, Docker, ect)This is part of a bigger project and I'm basically dedicating 24/7 to figure this outAny help is highly appreciated. Feel free to ask.
Stuck on load screen Stuck on load screenu/kRbH_aT5•7 days agoStuck on load screen
Question regarding running Ubuntu Question regarding running Ubuntuu/Appropriate-Tap-6320•18 hr. agoQuestion regarding running UbuntuI've installed and been running Ubuntu on my 128 GB SanDisk Ultra USB 3.0 Pen Drive (this one), since 2 months. And its running smooth with minimal freezes.But i've heard USB flash drives have limited write cycles and since Ubuntu constantly writes logs, cache, updates - USB wears faster.I have 8 GB RAM, 10 GB swap file (swappiness 60). And every day around a total of 15 GB (read, write cycles combined) is processed in the USB drive.Is it safe to keep using it, or its possible it will wear off in few months and crash without warning? Or it can last few years?? Any method to check how much health it has left using any software/command checks.PS: I mostly use browsers (tens of tabs), messaging apps and programming softwares.
Installation problem Installation problemu/judicc•1 day agoInstallation problem
Unknown dosfsck user input query Unknown dosfsck user input queryu/CuriousDivide2425•8 days agoUnknown dosfsck user input queryI plugged in a flash drive, and it seems to have a corrupted FAT32 partition. The flash drive is at "/dev/sdc", and that's also where the parition is too, since there is only 1 parition in the flash drive.I ran "sudo dosfsck -l /dev/sdc" to try to fix the FAT32 partition. It output this and asked for user input:FATs differ but appear to be intact.1) Use first FAT2) Use second FAT[12?q]?I don't know what this user input query means. I searched online to see dosfsck examples and what this output could mean, but I found nothing. Does anyone know what this means, and what which option would do...?
Problem with my USB controller, my computer doesn't detect it Problem with my USB controller, my computer doesn't detect itu/RoundStatus2808•8 days agoProblem with my USB controller, my computer doesn't detect itProblem with my USB controller, my computer doesn't detect itr/linux_gaming•8 days agoProblem with my USB controller, my computer doesn't detect itHello, I just bought a wired USB controller and when I connect it to my machine running Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTS, my controller isn't detected.  It shows as plugged in in the terminal with the `lsusb` command, but it's not detected at all anywhere else. I've tried installing several drivers and configuration software, but nothing works. I could really use some help because I've been completely lost for two days now.1upvote·7comments
Wifi option doesn’t exist Wifi option doesn’t existu/ishootmyfoot•14 days agoWifi option doesn’t exist
Using for almost two years and the experience is always getting better Using for almost two years and the experience is always getting betteru/eternallyHumbled•10 days agoUsing for almost two years and the experience is always getting better
Back to 24.04 then... Back to 24.04 then...u/BrightLet2843•19 days agoBack to 24.04 then...
La actualización HWE de Ubuntu 24.04.4 LTS ya está disponible La actualización HWE de Ubuntu 24.04.4 LTS ya está disponibleu/Appropriate_Wash_248•8 days agoLa actualización HWE de Ubuntu 24.04.4 LTS ya está disponibleLa actualización HWE de Ubuntu 24.04.4 LTS ya está disponibler/Ubuntu_ES18011979•8 days agoLa actualización HWE de Ubuntu 24.04.4 LTS ya está disponibleLapila de habilitación de hardware (HWE) Ubuntu 24.04.4 LTSfinalmente llegó al repositorio de actualizaciones, trayendo el kernel Linux 6.17 y Mesa 25.2.7 a los usuarios en la versión actual de soporte a largo plazo.Todos los usuarios de Ubuntu 24.04 LTS pueden instalar esta nueva versión del kernel y el conjunto de controladores de GPU actualizado como una actualización de software regular. Esta pila también se integrará en la ISO de Ubuntu 24.04.4 LTS cuando se lance el 12 de febrero de 2026.Cubrí la actualización de HWE (y su razón de ser) en enero, cuando las piezas clave empezaron a llegar alproposedrepositorio. Para quienes se la perdieron, aquí está la esencia:El kernel de Linux 6.17ofrece una mejor administración de energía para las CPU Intel más nuevas, compatibilidad con SmartMux para computadoras portátiles híbridas AMD, compatibilidad inicial con RDNA 4, varias mejoras de Framework para computadoras portátiles y estabilidad mejorada para Wi-Fi 7.¿Qué novedades trae Linux 6.17? Todo esto…Mesa 25.2.7trae NVK listo para producción (controlador NVIDIA Vulkan de código abierto), Rusticl reemplazando a Clover por OpenCL, compatibilidad total con Vulkan 1.4 en Intel y AMD, y una variedad de correcciones específicas de juegos para títulos comoNo Man's SkyyBorderlands 4.Los Protocolos Wayland 1.45se incluyen en esta actualización de HWE. Ofrecen nuevos protocolos de preparación para efectos de transparencia y una API de deformación de punteros. Algunos programas ya pueden usarlos, y más los usarán con el tiempo; esto es importante, ya que la versión 24.04 es una versión con soporte a largo plazo.Si ejecuta Ubuntu 24.04 LTS, puede instalar la actualización ahora a través delActualizador de softwareo,aptsi lo prefiere, actualizar desde su terminal.En agosto de 2026 se lanzará otra actualización de HWE que incorporará el kernel Linux 6.20/7.0 y la pila Mesa de Ubuntu 26.04 LTS.4upvotes
im not able to resolve my touchpad lag on ubuntu and feels lots of friction and heavy im not able to resolve my touchpad lag on ubuntu and feels lots of friction and heavyu/GardenHistorical2593•21 hr. agoim not able to resolve my touchpad lag on ubuntu and feels lots of friction and heavy24.04 .03 lts hpvictus dualboot 6.17.0-14-generic
Ubuntu Server error. I cannot seem to finish the installation Ubuntu Server error. I cannot seem to finish the installationu/Dariux_GG•8 days agoUbuntu Server error. I cannot seem to finish the installationUbuntu server error. I cannot seem to finish the installationr/linux4noobs•8 days agoUbuntu server error. I cannot seem to finish the installation18upvotes·17comments
i need help i think i might have bricked my computer i need help i think i might have bricked my computeru/BrokeRanger•8 days agoi need help i think i might have bricked my computeri need help i think i might have bricked my computerr/linuxmint•8 days agoi need help i think i might have bricked my computerim new to linux im running mint on a laptop and i was trying to web surf when my internet didn't work anymore i tried alot if bug fixes and nothing happened i tried turning it on and off again and then it failed to boot then i tried again and it gave a bunch of error messagesim running on a-ryzen 7 4000 series-gtx 1060 or 1080 (i dont remember)-16 gb of ram-windows is on one drive and linux on the otheredit one:the internet cutting out happend when i opened my computer, the issue did not occur on the windows side of my laptop so i went trubble shooting myself on this formherei entered alot of things into the command prompt nothing helped so i turned it off then back on and it didn't help, also for anyone wondering when i boot up the pc all i see is thisthisever once and a while when i boot up it will dothisware i have to enter my linux login and then it gives me a command prompt for linux3upvotes·19comments
Instalación de Ubuntu con UEFI Instalación de Ubuntu con UEFIu/Dull-Economy-4804•1 day agoInstalación de Ubuntu con UEFIHola, llevo todo el dia intentando abrir Ubuntu pero no me abre y no se cual es el problema booteo la usb con rufus y segun el pc la lee y todo esta bien pero no me deja ingresar, cuando lo reinicio e intento entrar al boot de la usb esta me rebota al mismo inicio y no me deja entrar, probe desactivando los boots (fast y secure) y tambien poniendo a mi usb como primera opcion y me la ignora y entra de nuevo a windows, ayuda
[IDEA]: Anyone know if it's possible to do something like this in the GNOME top bar? [IDEA]: Anyone know if it's possible to do something like this in the GNOME top bar?u/dhananjayporwal•1 day ago[IDEA]: Anyone know if it's possible to do something like this in the GNOME top bar?[IDEA]: Anyone know if it's possible to do something like this in the GNOME top bar?r/gnome•1 day ago[IDEA]: Anyone know if it's possible to do something like this in the GNOME top bar?256upvotes·22comments
After installing Lyrebird and Pipewire(?) my sound is no longer working on 22.04 After installing Lyrebird and Pipewire(?) my sound is no longer working on 22.04u/Melab•1 day agoAfter installing Lyrebird and Pipewire(?) my sound is no longer working on 22.04I tried looking for a voice changer for the microphone for Ubuntu, so I installed Lyrebird and PipeWire. Now, my audio no longer works. Pressing the mute button on my keyboard brings up no UI saying that it's muted/unmuted. Fn+F11 and Fn+F12 no longer show a volume slider being adjusted. I figured uninstalling them should've fixed it, but it didn't. I've even rebooted. Please help.
Ubuntu Desktop UI Bugs: Remote Shell SSH - known since May 2024 Ubuntu Desktop UI Bugs: Remote Shell SSH - known since May 2024u/Prestigiouspite•1 day agoUbuntu Desktop UI Bugs: Remote Shell SSH - known since May 2024I installed a fresh Ubuntu Desktop 24.04 (downloaded today). I think it looks great and has become so user-friendly. You can easily activate SSH and RDP (Remote Desktop) via the GUI? Amazing.So I activated screen sharing, etc. It doesn't work. I started looking for a solution. Long shell commands. Cumbersome to enter, so I wanted to connect via Putty from my windows pc.Remote SSH activated. Setting becomes active (no error message). I try to connect via SSH: Doesn't work. With my background, I then realize: No openssh-server installed. So I install this via terminal and then I can finally continue with the search for the actual RDP problem.What I'm trying to say is: These are just constant chains of errors that I experience with Linux desktop systems. You just never know what still needs to be done manually and what happens automatically on the desktop. If there is a function in the GUI, it should work as intended and be understandable for an end user. Even as someone who has been administering Linux servers for several years now, it's enough to drive you to despair.To make matters worse, I then discover that this error has been known since May 2024:https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-control-center/+bug/2065483I think the code that would run in the background: if this package is missing, can we install it automatically? It would be easy, really. Just 3-5 more lines. Does Ubuntu need more developers to get involved, even in the age of AI? Many open source projects are currently starting to only accept ideas and say: with AI, we'd rather integrate this ourselves, knowing all the systems.And Ubuntu Desktop is still the system that appears to be the most reliable overall. It's actually all the more unfortunate that I find it difficult to make recommendations to those considering switching to Windows when I myself am constantly challenged by such issues. And end users also use things like remote desktop connections more frequently.Now I'll continue troubleshooting the screen sharing issue... Probably?https://www.reddit.com/r/Ubuntu/comments/1csoi05/2404_cannot_connect_via_rdp/
howdy ubuntu recognition howdy ubuntu recognitionu/Distinct_Shower4633•1 day agohowdy ubuntu recognitionDoes anyone know how I can make facial recognition on the lock screen automatic? I mean, when the system starts up, I don't want to have to select a user; I want it to automatically redirect me to user A's profile when it detects their face, and the same for user B. I've tried different commands but haven't had any luck. Any advice or help on this?
New to Ubuntu here! Suggest me things I should learn about in Ubuntu ( LTS 20.04.3). New to Ubuntu here! Suggest me things I should learn about in Ubuntu ( LTS 20.04.3).u/Sin_Dailys•3 days agoNew to Ubuntu here! Suggest me things I should learn about in Ubuntu ( LTS 20.04.3).Also, should I install Blender from the App center or Steam?And how to install Davinci Resolve?Thank you for your time everyone!
Rate my Ubuntu setup Rate my Ubuntu setupu/itz_psych•1 mo. agoRate my Ubuntu setup
not able to install any of media controls gnome extension. Any one faced similar issue? not able to install any of media controls gnome extension. Any one faced similar issue?u/Remarkable-Culture-5•8 days agonot able to install any of media controls gnome extension. Any one faced similar issue?Tried installingmedia-controllsextension on ubuntu 20.04 it gave out this error: SyntaxError: import declarations may only appear at top level of a moduleTried all older versions of this module from github nothings working.Then tried thismedia-integrationsextension. Again this gave one more error: No JS module 'dbus' found in search path. even installed required packages according to error but no fix.So is it time to say goodbye to ubuntu20.04 for regular usage?
hi i was recently geting to linux and i want to use ubuntu but what flavor? hi i was recently geting to linux and i want to use ubuntu but what flavor?u/Excellent-Twist-3602•7 days agohi i was recently geting to linux and i want to use ubuntu but what flavor?idk what flavor to use cinamon studio kubuntuor the normal ubuntu (sorry for bad english i am not from an english speaking country) i like a litle bit of gaming but also some content creatione like editing videos for fun ubuntu studio has a installer for others so i want to rule it out
Can someone help me with brightness issue in Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTS? Can someone help me with brightness issue in Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTS?u/MadxMad5624•8 days agoCan someone help me with brightness issue in Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTS?
Latest Ubuntu 25.10 fresh copy, minimalistic look, blur my shell doing the final polish ✨ Latest Ubuntu 25.10 fresh copy, minimalistic look, blur my shell doing the final polish ✨u/CompetitivePanda9073•16 days agoLatest Ubuntu 25.10 fresh copy, minimalistic look, blur my shell doing the final polish ✨
Update broke my PC, Ubuntu 24.04 Update broke my PC, Ubuntu 24.04u/ISzox•2 days agoUpdate broke my PC, Ubuntu 24.04So, I updated my PC today with the standard tools, which broke something. When i boot, the Bios flashes, a dozen command lines blink on screen and I am prompted with a single blinking underscore in the upper left corner, which continues blinking for minutesNeed some advice where i should look for more resources to help with my problem.Edit: used my old install stick to launch boot repair and got the following result:https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/WqyS9fBNqF/Should i just use the Recommended repair or do any of the advanced options?Edit2: I ran the recommended repairs and apparently now have to setup GRUB properly.https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/S669dJrVqH/However, i have no Idea what exactly I'm supposed to do in detail.Edit 3: running advanced options with an old Kernel Version works fine.
Working on a thingo Working on a thingou/AdStraight9384•6 days agoWorking on a thingoWorking on a thingor/UbuntuUnity•6 days agoWorking on a thingo5upvotes·2comments
Do you guys remember my post the other day about my mouse input not being detected? Well I have found a solution to that, I disabled the "double click" in Nautilus file manager, now it's only a single click to open something. More inside. Do you guys remember my post the other day about my mouse input not being detected? Well I have found a solution to that, I disabled the "double click" in Nautilus file manager, now it's only a single click to open something. More inside.u/Future-sight-5829•7 days agoDo you guys remember my post the other day about my mouse input not being detected? Well I have found a solution to that, I disabled the "double click" in Nautilus file manager, now it's only a single click to open something. More inside.Do you remember my post from the other day about my mouse input not being detected? Herehttps://www.reddit.com/r/Ubuntu/comments/1qiu47j/mouse_input_not_being_detected_this_has_been/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web3x&utm_name=web3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_buttonSo someone mentioned that you can go into Ubuntu settings and go to "mouse and touchpad" and open up "test settings" to see if the mouse is working correctly and I did that and yes my basic $20 wireless Logitech mouse is working just fine.So in Nautilus file manager, in preferences, you can change it to just a single click to open a file. So this is what I've done, I've disabled the double click and now it only takes a single click to open a file in Nautilus file manager. So this is the workaround I've come up with to this nagging irritating problem!!! I was dealing with this for about 2 years! And I've complained about it here onr/Ubuntumultiple times too!So I'm having no issues (so far) with the single click method, so this proves that there is a bug with the "double click" in Ubuntu. This bug with the "double click" started back on Ubuntu 22.04!!! It started back in 2024 when I was still on 22.04 and followed me to 24.04, I was hoping it'd go away when I switched to Ubuntu 24.04 but nope.So I don't want to retype everything so for more details go visit the link I've provided up above please.My mouse is fine. This isn't a hardware bug, this is a software bug, this is a bug with Ubuntu itself. Ubuntu is to blame here. I am pretty sure Ubuntu is to blame here.This needs to be fixed. Any Ubuntu devs here? Please fix this?So in the meantime I'll just stick with the single click method. But I shouldn't have to do this! This bug needs to be patched!It's so frustrating cause I never ever had issues with the mouse on Windows and then I come over to Linux Ubuntu and start having issues with my mouse. And it makes me wanna pull my hair out in frustration!Please someone look into this bug and please fix it?Like I said in the meantime I'll just have to use the single click.
The only feature that prevent me to ditch windows for linux The only feature that prevent me to ditch windows for linuxu/DazzlingPassion614•8 days agoThe only feature that prevent me to ditch windows for linux
127.0.1.1 vs ntpsec "ntpq -p myhost" 127.0.1.1 vs ntpsec "ntpq -p myhost"u/JohnTrap•8 days ago127.0.1.1 vs ntpsec "ntpq -p myhost"So for an Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTS server with ntpsec installed, doing an "ntpq -p myhost" fails because NTP is not running on 127.0.1.1.In /etc/hosts, myhost is defined as 127.0.1.1.ntpq -p127.0.0.1and ntpq -pmyhost.example.comwork.I'm not sure if this is working as intended or not.Do all local services fail when using the local host name or is ntpsec unique?
Hotkey for tabbing 4 times in a row Hotkey for tabbing 4 times in a rowu/rojo_kell•8 days agoHotkey for tabbing 4 times in a rowHi,EDIT 2: solved, using keyd now!Edit: OS: Ubuntu 22.04.5 LTS x86_64 on framework 13 laptopI am trying to set a hotkey to tab 4 times in a row, e.g. I hit ctrl-shift-space and it tabs 4 times. I tried using various tools, but they all failed. I want to use this in firefox so that I can tab through 4 text boxes as I use a website that has a textbox I want to edit every 4 text boxes, so I currently hit tab 4 times but it would be faster to just hit 1 key.I tried using autokey but the space key wasn't recognized when I tried to set the hotkeyI tried using the custom shortcuts in settingsWith python (pynput) the script didn't seem to do anythingWith xdotool, the command didn't seem to do anythingwith wtype, I got this error: Compositor does not support the virtual keyboard protocolDoes anyone know a good way to do this?
Deleting Old Ubuntu Partition After Installing New One Deleting Old Ubuntu Partition After Installing New Oneu/Bargonzo2026•8 days agoDeleting Old Ubuntu Partition After Installing New OneHey guys,About two years ago, during my CS degree, I decided to dual boot Ubuntu and Windows. Ubuntu to learn Linux and Windows for games and such. At the time I only had one 2TB ssd and a lot of storage was already taken up on it (b/c games huge) so I had less room for the Ubuntu OS.Now, I have recently bought a new SSD for my machine to run Ubuntu on the new SSD. I decided that it'd be easier to just add a new bootable Ubuntu OS on that new SSD then just move them over (also that's scary and risky). Now I am wondering if I can delete that old partition to free up some space on my old SSD that Windows runs on.Will this bork my Windows OS? If not, how do I get rid of this partition? By just deleting it in Disk Management? What do I do with configuring GRUB afterwards? And if it will bork my Windows OS, what should I do instead to meet my goal? Anyways, thanks for the help! I hope this post fits the guidelines.Thanks,Your Friendly Open Source User.
Deperto: A GNOME Extension for XFCE-style Zoom (Super + Scroll) Deperto: A GNOME Extension for XFCE-style Zoom (Super + Scroll)u/denbarb•8 days agoDeperto: A GNOME Extension for XFCE-style Zoom (Super + Scroll)Deperto: A GNOME Extension for XFCE-style Zoom (Super + Scroll)r/gnome•10 days agoDeperto: A GNOME Extension for XFCE-style Zoom (Super + Scroll)AVAILABLE ON GNOME EXTENSIONS WEBSITE:https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/9256/deperto-zoom-by-scroll/[Update] Deperto: XFCE-style "Zoom by Scroll" for GNOME (Now with custom shortcuts!)If you've ever migrated from XFCE or just hate reading tiny text on a high-DPI monitor, you probably miss the ability to just hold a key and scroll to zoom in exactly where you are looking.So I built Deperto.What it does:It takes the native GNOME magnifier and forces it to behave. It sets the tracking mode to "proportional" (so the zoom follows your cursor, not the center of the screen) and binds it to a modifier key + Scroll.Point your mouse at something interesting.Hold the key.Scroll wheel up.ENHANCE.One tiny detail:In standard GNOME,Super + Scrollusually switches workspaces.This extension hijacks that. We stole it. It's ours now. I consider this a feature, not a bug.(Note: That's not strictly true anymore with the new update, but I kept it because I like the joke.)✨ UPDATE: What's New?Based on feedback, I've just pushed a big update:Customizable Shortcuts:You are no longer locked to the Super key. You can now choose Alt, Ctrl+Alt, Shift+Super, and others in the extension preferences.Workspace Switching Logic:We don't just "steal" the shortcut anymore; we swap it. If you set Zoom to Super + Scroll, the extension automatically maps Alt + Scroll to switch workspaces (and vice versa).UPDATE 2Quick update on theDepertoextension. I realized that hijackingSuper + Scrollwas basically a declaration of war against GNOME’s workspace switching.To keep the peace (and your sanity), I’ve put the extension on a "shortcut diet." We are now down to two clean, conflict-free combos:Super + Alt + Scroll(The Secret Handshake): Our new default. 🤝Ctrl + Super + Scroll(The Finger Gymnast): For those who like using all their digits at once. ⌨️Now you can zoom in on those cat memes with surgical precision and fly into Workspace 4. Your eyes (and your workflow) will thank you!It's open source and I'd love to hear what you think!AVAILABLE ON GNOME EXTENSIONS WEBSITE:https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/9256/deperto-zoom-by-scroll/GitHub:https://github.com/dennisguim/depertoThanks!19upvotes·20comments
Ubuntu 24.04 LTS Desktop installer flow feels confusing with network + “installer update required” (LAN/Wi-Fi issues) + Wi-Fi connection never works (even though it is connected) Ubuntu 24.04 LTS Desktop installer flow feels confusing with network + “installer update required” (LAN/Wi-Fi issues) + Wi-Fi connection never works (even though it is connected)u/Prestigiouspite•1 day agoUbuntu 24.04 LTS Desktop installer flow feels confusing with network + “installer update required” (LAN/Wi-Fi issues) + Wi-Fi connection never works (even though it is connected)Hi everyone,I’ve noticed some confusing (and sometimes frustrating) behavior when installingUbuntu Desktop 24.04 LTSfrom the official installation iso (downloaded today), especially aroundnetwork setupand the“installer update required”prompt. I’m posting this because it feels like a rough first experience for new users.Case 1: Desktop PC on wired LANMy desktop was already connected viaEthernet (LAN cable)when I booted the installer.I went through the install process, including the step where it asks about setting up Wi-Fi etc., andonly after these several stepsthe installer told me:An installer update is available.I installed the update, then the installerexits and must be restarted. That means I have to repeat some steps I already went through.What I don’t understand is:If I’m already online via LAN from the start, why doesn’t the installercheck for updates immediately at the beginningand prompt right away? It feels like unnecessary repetition, where the UX can be improved.Case 2: Laptop with Wi-Fi during Live session, but installer “spins forever”On a notebook, I started withno connection(no LAN, no Wi-Fi). During the install I connected to myFRITZ!Box 5690 Pro.The Wi-Fi connection showed as active (Wi-Fi icon top right), but the installer kept “loading/spinning” as if it still had no internet connection. It would basically hang on that step indefinitely.If I choose“Continue without a connection”, I then get the same message again:An installer update is available.After downloading the update and restarting the installer, when I get back to the network step, it asks me for the Wi-Fi password again, even though the Live session was already connected.And in some cases, if the connection setup still doesn’t work and I again choose “no connection”, the installer evendrops/disconnects the existing Wi-Fi connectionthat was already established in the Live environment.With none of this, MAC security was not activated, and the Fritz!Box indicated that the device was successfully connected; otherwise, the installer update would not have been displayed.Why this mattersYes, I know it’s possible to just install Ubuntu offline and configure everything after the first boot. But from a user experience perspective, especially for someone installing Ubuntu for the first time:Theorder of stepsfeels unintuitiveTheinstaller update prompt appears too late(even when already online)Wi-Fi setup can feelunreliable or stuck, and the repeated password prompts are confusingRestarting the installer forces you to redo steps, which feels unnecessaryI had hoped that I could use my TPM for hardware encryption for my DELL XPS 17, but a message appeared saying that the required driver was not available or something similar (TPM had been cleared beforehand, as otherwise there would have been other conflicts (TPM locked due to too many calls or something)).QuestionsIs this a known issue with the24.04 Desktop installer(or the “installer update” mechanism)?Is this kind of feedback helpful for Ubuntu? Is there a structured way to submit this kind of feedback? Or is it not really needed anyway, since these things are usually clear (due to the high number of users)?Posts like this sometimes make me think that Ubuntu may be missing feedback from new users. Experienced users may not even comment on such issues because they simply skip them or solve them differently.https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/feedback-system-for-basic-users/48373/4In my opinion, such a feedback and voting system would therefore be extremely helpful. For example, each user could receive 5 votes per month and distribute them as they wish.But posts like these give me hope (cleaning up the updater):https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/why-we-re-saying-goodbye-to-software-updates/76783Thanks for any insights!
Help recreating Hyprland setup on Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTS Help recreating Hyprland setup on Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTSu/Extension-Insect-158•8 days agoHelp recreating Hyprland setup on Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTSHi everyone!I’m trying to recreate a Hyprland rice I saw onr/unixporn:https://www.reddit.com/r/unixporn/comments/1owqoi5/hyprland_a_complete_material_you_theme_dots/I really like the setup and want to make it my own with a few changes:Change the text to "Hi Sander"Use a raven image in the terminal and as wallpaperKeep the jelly-like window animations and smooth minimize/maximize effectsPossibly show the raven image on startupI’m a complete Linux beginner and doing everything through ChatGPT, even translating this, because my English isn’t very strong 😅I’m using **Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTS**.I tried installing Hyprland via `apt` and some PPA suggestions, but many packages are unavailable (`hyprland`, `fastfetch`, `hyprpaper`, `xdg-desktop-portal-hyprland`).I’m looking for guidance on:How to properly install Hyprland and all required packages on Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTSHow to tweak config files for custom text, images, and window animationsAny tips or example dotfiles for this kind of setupThanks in advance! I want to do this safely without breaking my system.If you’ve done something similar, I’d love to see your configs or advice.
I'm at my wits end, need help. I'm at my wits end, need help.u/MayaSarasfall•1 day agoI'm at my wits end, need help.ok so my friends and I put together a server rig using ubuntu. My friend is the one who set all of this up, but it remains at my house because I havbe the most stable internet and a backup generator. The onlyh issue is the only place for the rig to be is my bedroom and the hand me down ram that I supplied is the RGB teamgroup 4x8 DDR4. The RGB is downright BLINDING at night and i need it gone. I've tried openRGB but I'm not savvy enough to figure this out. I also tried the bios but couldn't find any light control options. any suggestions?TEAMGROUP T-Force Delta RGB DDR4 32GB (4x8GB) 3600MHzMSI PRO B760M-P DDR4 ProSeries Motherboard (Supports 12th/13th/14th Gen Intel Processors, LGA 1700, DDR4, PCIe 4.0, M.2, USB 3.2 Gen2, HDMI/DP, mATX)EDIT: I somehow managed it thank you for all the help!
Server outage Server outageu/OriginalRGer•9 days agoServer outagehttps://status.canonical.com/Just when I decided to go back to using it after 2 months lol
Nvidia drivers do not load Nvidia drivers do not loadu/BobWeDo•8 days agoNvidia drivers do not loadUbuntu 24.04.3 LTS GeForce RTX 3070So this all started after I got a second display and Ubuntu didn't auto detect it. A bunch of system and driver updates later, via packages and the ubuntu ppa, I'm now left in a position where the nvidia drivers do not load.Tried purging and reinstalling a bunch of times. Tested a bunch of different driver versions. Including the recommended 590-open.Running:nvidia-smiTells me it can't communicate with the nvidia driver. So I guess it's falling back to nouveau?If someone can provide up-to-date steps on how I go about troubleshooting this issue, that would be great! A lot of what I've been reading doesn't appear to be relevant any more.EDIT:So as it turns out I also had pending firmware updates. These were preventing the drivers from being enrolled as the certs are now out of date.Found a great post explaining a bit about UEFI and Key Enrollment Keys.https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/fwupdmgr-offers-kek-ca-updates-from-2011-to-2023/63421(Check out the reply from ogra who does a great job of explaining it)If you don't see the key enrollment process at the end of the driver installation, then you may have the same issue. Search in Ubuntu for "Firmware Update" and see if you have some updates. I had two "KEK CA" and "UEFI CA" I ran the KEK one then the UEFI. Please note firmware updates carry some risk. At a minimum make sure your device is reliably powered.Once the nvidia drivers were loading I still had issues. My primary display was defaulting to the display port despite nothing being connected to that port. So that's always good to check.I still can't get one of my devices operating at max resolution but some good progress today! At least the driver is now correctly installed. I verified this by running nvidia-smi and nvidia-settings.Thanks to everyone who chipped in with ideas to resolve the issue!
Advice: Change your userspace first, then switch to Linux Advice: Change your userspace first, then switch to Linuxu/mizzrym862•1 mo. agoAdvice: Change your userspace first, then switch to Linux2026 will be a year where a lot of people will be switching to Linux. After running it for over 20 years, that's the best advice I can give: Change your userspace first. Find Opensource alternatives for the programs you use daily. Replace office with libreoffice. Replace Outlook with Thunderbird/Evolution. Install Windows Subsystem for Linux and start getting comfortable with bash/shell.And THEN change the OS. It'll make things SO much easier for you.There's basically only two things you need to know at that point:You don't have drive letters anymore. Filesystem starts at / and every disk/partition/drive/network-mounted-things will just be some folder somewhere in that hirachy, usually inside /mnt or /media. And the question everybody of us asked once was "How do I create a mountpoint" and the answer is: You just create a folder - there is no difference in Linux.You don't browse the web and download an installer for software. Whatever distro you pick will come with at least a package manager, most of them even with a GUI that's like the appstore on your phone. Use that. And don't worry about drivers. Except for GPU acceleration in some cases, all your needs will be shipped with the base installation.Everything else comes with experience. Set yourself some goals, like having a really cool User Interface, doing more fancy stuff from the CLI or improvements to your workflow with things that you previously hadn't had access to, like virtual desktops, automation with scripts and stuff like that.Give it time, you're going to be a pro eventually.And welcome.You're free now :)(Please crosspost that to as many Linux communites as possible, there will be a flood of rookies incoming, who might want to read this)(Edit: If you can't figure out alternativeshttp://alternativeto.net/will help you a lot. Thanksu/billdehaan2)(Edit2: Remember:Linux is not hard - it's just different)
Why does ubuntu keep copying the games that I have installed in the app drawer? Why does ubuntu keep copying the games that I have installed in the app drawer?u/Business-Push1215•9 days agoWhy does ubuntu keep copying the games that I have installed in the app drawer?I have 16 games on my pc with ubuntu, and most apps in the drawer, but all the games are copied like a hundred times over. The drawer has 29 pages, more than 20 are just copies of game icons. What is a fix for this? This issue makes the navigation of the drawer incredibly terrible
Officially starting my journey daily driving Linux! Officially starting my journey daily driving Linux!u/km_jhyn•11 days agoOfficially starting my journey daily driving Linux!
OpenAI/Anthropic still haven't built a desktop app for Linux, so I built Snippy. OpenAI/Anthropic still haven't built a desktop app for Linux, so I built Snippy.u/breezy_owl_1989•8 days agoOpenAI/Anthropic still haven't built a desktop app for Linux, so I built Snippy.
I can't boot into ZorinOS I can't boot into ZorinOSu/Independent_Tomato_8•8 days agoI can't boot into ZorinOSHello, I was upgrading my Nvdia drivers when I was prompted to reboot.After I did, I was faced with a initramfs screen, which upon exiting displayed`Gave up waiting for root file system device. Common problems:- Boot args (cat /proc/cmdline)= Check rootdelay= (did the system wait long enough?)-Missing modules (cat /proc/modules: ls dev)ALERT! UUID=xxxxx-xxxxx-xxxx-xxxxx does not exist. Dropping to a shell!`on the boot repair menu, after it directed me to paste some commands, it refused to go beyond the second set of commands since `grub is still present` and after I tried to run the utility again it told me to run the command `_label9`.What should I do?https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/HWG8sYJNFn/edit: after trying to run the boot repair utility again, my option to do the default actions failed to display, leaving me with the only choice of being able to generate a log and here it is:https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/dhdkqVkhkg/
Anybody noticed any network problems with kernel 6.8.0-100? Anybody noticed any network problems with kernel 6.8.0-100?u/futura-bold•5 days agoAnybody noticed any network problems with kernel 6.8.0-100?After upgrading to kernel 6.8.0-100, I've had problems browsing with firefox. e.g.:"Firefox can't establish a connection to the server atwww.google.com.   [Retry]"Clicking the [Retry] button 2 or 3 times does finally bring up the web-page.If I reboot, selecting the previous kernel that I had installed, 6.8.0-94, then the problem goes away.Has anybody else noticed anything like this?Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTS, network connected via ethernet.Firefox 147.0.3 installed from firefox.com rather than snap.
lowercase 'o' not working on login screen lowercase 'o' not working on login screenu/koez1•9 days agolowercase 'o' not working on login screenHi everyone,I'm running Ubuntu 24.04 in UTM on my MacBook Air M2. Everything works fine, but on the login screen, my lowercase 'o' key does not type at all — uppercase 'O' works fine.  -shit o- worksHas anyone experienced this issue or knows a reliable fix? Ideally, I want to type my password normally without using the on-screen keyboard or changing my password every time.Thanks in advance!
Apps availability on Ubuntu (and generally other linux distros) ARMv8 architecture (laptop) Apps availability on Ubuntu (and generally other linux distros) ARMv8 architecture (laptop)u/MoistWillingness6360•9 days agoApps availability on Ubuntu (and generally other linux distros) ARMv8 architecture (laptop)On a ARM laptop that I buy will it support apps such as VS code, Obsidian, Spotify. also game clients such as Steam and the games that I already have there.so should I consider buying an ARM laptop in such a case
Issues with ad blocker on mint Issues with ad blocker on mintu/Super-Bridge-8759•1 day agoIssues with ad blocker on mint
Default Ubuntu is actually… good Default Ubuntu is actually… goodu/dhananjayporwal•1 mo. agoDefault Ubuntu is actually… goodI’ve been using ubuntu as my daily driver for the past 4-5 years. Like many of us, I went through the classic phase of extreme ricing - trying to make gnome look like some unholy love child of macos aesthetics and windows usability. Custom themes, icon packs, extensions stacked on extensions… you know the drill.Recently though, I stopped fighting ubuntu and just tried running it mostly default. And honestly? It’s better.With just a few minimal tweaks - transparent top bar, rounded corners, and some sane extension choices - the default ubuntu experience feels clean, minimal, and fast. No visual noise, no constant maintenance after updates, no "why did this extension break again?" moments.That said, I do have a few gripes (because of course I do):The Ubuntu icon set… yeah, not for me. Too loud, too playful.Same goes for the default fonts - usable, but not exactly elegant.The default dock behavior on multi-monitor setups is… let’s say interesting. I switched to Dash to Dock because muscle memory > ideology.Other than that? It’s stock Ubuntu.What surprised me the most is how much better gnome feels when you don’t overload it. Animations are smoother, things feel more consistent, and the system just gets out of the way - which is kind of the whole point of an OS.So yeah, after years of tweaking everything to death, I’ve come full circle:Default ubuntu + light polish > heavily customized Franken-desktop.Curious what others think - are you still ricing endlessly, or have you also accepted the default-pill?
Need help, something broke(?) Need help, something broke(?)u/ChampionshipBulky66•9 days agoNeed help, something broke(?)Completely normie running away from Windows, please bear with me. I was just here living my life when Ubuntu(24.04.3) asked me to install an upgrade and reboot, as it does occasionally so I just did that. HOWEVER after reboot not a single flatpak app opens, not even .deb apps, only snap apps open.When I tryflatpak run com.brave.Browser, it returns bwrap: Creating new namespace failed: Permission denied error: ldconfig failed, exit status 256flatpak run net.mullvad.MullvadBrowser bwrap: Creating new namespace failed: Permission denied error: Failed to sync with dbus proxyI was using AI (sorry) on my iPad to troubleshoot, nothing worked. Got tired of typing everything (it has been hours, I thought this only happened in Arch or something) and thought HEY snap works right so I just need to install the snap version of firefox to copy commands from there to make things faster and smoother. Firefox did not open, went to terminal and there is was “error: cannot communicate with server: Post “http://localhost/v2/snapctl”: dial unix /run/snapd-snap.socket: socket: permission denied ERROR: not connected to the gnome-42-2204 content interface.”I don’t know what else to do, and don’t know enough to know what is happening, it is crazy to me that a routine update would cause something like that. I’m almost backing up everything and doing a fresh Ubuntu install.Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTS GNOME 46 Dell Inspiron 16 5630
Ubuntu 16.04 Ubuntu 16.04u/ViewOfInnocence•19 days agoUbuntu 16.04
Anyone seen this before after an update? Anyone seen this before after an update?u/Specific_Worry_1459•4 days agoAnyone seen this before after an update?
can someone help with installation please can someone help with installation pleaseu/dv1jpg•1 day agocan someone help with installation pleaseHi everyone. Basically, my teacher asked me to download VirtualBox and then Ubuntu 22. But the problem is that I have a MacBook Air M1, and ChatGPT advised me to use UTM and also ubuntu 22.04 ARM64. Now I’m stuck and don’t know what to do next. Can someone help me with the download?😭😭
Driver problems with GT730 Driver problems with GT730u/Correct_Salt_1591•4 days agoDriver problems with GT730
Why is Linux not working on my Dell laptop? Why is Linux not working on my Dell laptop?u/fuckedtwotimes•1 day agoWhy is Linux not working on my Dell laptop?Whenever I install Ubuntu or any other Linux distro, everything gets installed fine but when I try to boot after installation, it does not boot and a black screen appears. System Info: Model: Dell Latitude 5400 Processor: Intel Core i7-8365U CPU @ 1.80GHz RAM: 16 GB DDR4 Storage: 1 TB NVME SSD Graphics: Intel UHD Graphics Secure boot: Disabled
Ubuntu Server Caused Failed File Checksum? Ubuntu Server Caused Failed File Checksum?u/RoketEnginneer•9 days agoUbuntu Server Caused Failed File Checksum?I just want to make sure I'm not imagining a problem.I tried out using Ubuntu Server on an ancient dell poweredge r815, and while trying to install an equally ancient video card driver (yes, I did put it in a server), I got a failed MD5 file checksum on every version of the driver I could find.My theory is that the driver is just old, and the file is corrupted, end of story.Is there a chance that the checksum is failing because of a difference between Ubuntu Desktop and Server, or due to the driver being intended for a much older (14 VS 25) version of Ubuntu?
Linux late mass migration Linux late mass migrationu/k0b3n•1 mo. agoLinux late mass migrationDoes anyone have any idea what happens lately?I feel there is a coordinated movement to encourage everyone start using Linux, and by that I mean I have seen a lot of tech influencers posting content for that.And they are basically doing it in literally the same time, in every single country, like the whole planet is doing it.
Steam start error in Ubuntu Steam start error in Ubuntuu/ProposalFearless1593•2 days agoSteam start error in UbuntuI use ubuntu24. I failed to run steam. And the log is as below:[2026-02-11 23:47:49] Destroy windowSteam logging initialized: directory: /home/myname/.local/share/Steam/logs[2026-02-11 23:47:49] ProcessNextMessage: socket disconnected[2026-02-11 23:47:49] No more messages are expected - exitingXRRGetOutputInfo Workaround: initialized with override: 0 real: 0xe7372860XRRGetCrtcInfo Workaround: initialized with override: 0 real: 0xe7370fc0crash_20260211234749_5.dmp[56547]: Uploading dump (out-of-process) [proxy 'http://127.0.0.1:7890']/tmp/dumps/crash_20260211234749_5.dmp/home/myname/.local/share/Steam/steam.sh: line 928: 56535 Segmentation fault      (core dumped) "$STEAMROOT/$STEAMEXEPATH" "$@"crash_20260211234749_5.dmp[56547]: Finished uploading minidump (out-of-process): success = yescrash_20260211234749_5.dmp[56547]: response: CrashID=bp-0122aa4c-04b7-4347-b392-c33ad2260211crash_20260211234749_5.dmp[56547]: file ''/tmp/dumps/crash_20260211234749_5.dmp'', upload yes: ''CrashID=bp-0122aa4c-04b7-4347-b392-c33ad2260211''
Does anyone know how to change the colors in this image without AI? Does anyone know how to change the colors in this image without AI?u/No-Engineer1500•9 days agoDoes anyone know how to change the colors in this image without AI?Besides the Dark style. Thank you so much for any advice.
(WSL2) xeyes is working but glxgears is not (WSL2) xeyes is working but glxgears is notu/Quantic129•9 days ago(WSL2) xeyes is working but glxgears is notI am using WSL2 on my Windows 11 laptop with integrated Radeon graphics, and I think I am having some graphics drivers issues. I can run "xeyes" with no problems, the googly eyes pop up and track my mouse, but "glxgears" does not work. I have also tried "glxinfo" and gotten an error. The errors I am getting are shown below:laptop@laptop-ThinkPad:~$ glxinfo name of display: :0 X Error of failed request:  BadValue (integer parameter out of range for operation)   Major opcode of failed request:  148 (GLX)   Minor opcode of failed request:  24 (X_GLXCreateNewContext)   Value in failed request:  0x0   Serial number of failed request:  28   Current serial number in output stream:  29 laptop@laptop-ThinkPad:~$ glxgears Error: glXCreateContext failedI am not very experienced with Linux or software in general, so I am struggling to address or even understand these issues. I have checked that my graphical driver(s) are up to date, WSL2 is up to date, and I have all prerequisites/dependencies that I am aware of.Is anyone able to tell me what might be going wrong, and how I might try to fix it?
I think I broke my system I think I broke my systemu/cvaezpq•8 days agoI think I broke my systemso I was trying to downgrade mesa 26 back to mesa 24 because it used couple more vram than usual and now I only see console, and I didn't make a backup, will I lose all my files if I restore it with a usb?
Ethernet drops immediately when plugging in AC on Ubuntu (Intel I219-V / Asus ExpertBook) Ethernet drops immediately when plugging in AC on Ubuntu (Intel I219-V / Asus ExpertBook)u/Loud_Treacle4618•9 days agoEthernet drops immediately when plugging in AC on Ubuntu (Intel I219-V / Asus ExpertBook)Hi everyone,I’m having a strange problem on my Ubuntu laptop (Asus ExpertBook, Intel I219-V Ethernet).The issue startedafter I let my battery fully die yesterday. Now, whenever I plug in the charger, my wired Ethernet connectionimmediately drops, but it works fine on battery. Wi-Fi works normally all the time.A few more details:Ubuntu 22.04.3 LTS (kernel 6.14.0-37-generic)Ethernet interface:eno2/ Intel I219-VBIOS and system are stock, haven’t done any driver updates yetI monitored the system logs usingjournalctl -fwhile plugging in the charger:The kernel reports:e1000e 0000:00:1f.6 eno2: NIC Link is DownNetworkManager marks the interface as unavailableDHCP and mDNS transactions are canceledThis shows the NIC loses connectionexactly when AC is plugged in, likely apower delivery issue.My main question: Could this be because I let the battery fully die yesterday? Has anyone experienced Ethernet stopping working on AConly after a deep battery discharge?Any suggestions on how to fix it permanently would be greatly appreciated!
No Wi-Fi since reboot No Wi-Fi since rebootu/MeepMeepCoyote•4 days agoNo Wi-Fi since reboot
not much but its good for me not much but its good for meu/_KupalKabaBoss_•6 days agonot much but its good for me
Can I say that there is no vintage theme on the internet that recalls the old Ubuntu aesthetic? Can I say that there is no vintage theme on the internet that recalls the old Ubuntu aesthetic?u/Prior-Swimmer-5758•6 days agoCan I say that there is no vintage theme on the internet that recalls the old Ubuntu aesthetic?I'm wondering how Ubuntu Mate can match the aesthetics of older versions of Gnome (before Unity)... I've already done some research on the subject, but there's always something I'm not convinced by.How can you match the aesthetics of older Ubuntu versions? For example, here's the aesthetic I'm looking for:https://youtu.be/f3yP3hN6Z14?si=6WIMjrkM8oSexpe-
Transition from x86 to aarch64 Transition from x86 to aarch64u/Forward_Compute001•3 days agoTransition from x86 to aarch64Hello,I'm currently working on building a pocketable setup for running Ubuntu/Debian on my smartphone and cast the screen to my wireless android AR glasses.I always used x86 but am considering to completely transition to aarch64/arm to leverage the mobile arm chipset as much as possible. (Virtualization on mobile chipsets partially supports x86, because mobile chipsets are arm based, so reducing overhead would be important. x86 would be possible but not on all chipsets and only with some overhead that I think is worth taking in account)My concern is that I would have to find a lot of inconvenient workarounds because everything is built for x86, but not for arm. But arm would run natively on those powerful mobile chipsets.What type of issues would I encounter? And what would be a solid long-term strategy to solve them?I hope someone experienced can give me some advice.
Asunder issue / CD ripper Asunder issue / CD ripperu/chap-ito•7 days agoAsunder issue / CD ripperHi everyone !I have an issue with asunder : everytime I want to rip a CD, it says '"Unknown artists", "Unknown tracks" etc and I have to enter the data manually. I'm creating a music library so it's very tedious to enter everything manually. I checked the CDDB database and it's gnudb.gnudb.org , and my internet connection works fine.Do you know a way to fix it ? Or any other CD ripper as straightforward as Asunder ?Thanks !Update : I now use fre:ac and it works really well :)))
How can I run KVM images outside of /var/lib/libvirt/images/? How can I run KVM images outside of /var/lib/libvirt/images/?u/Agreeable-Worker7659•9 days agoHow can I run KVM images outside of /var/lib/libvirt/images/?Can't run qcows images outside of /var/lib/libvirt/images/r/kvm•9 days agoCan't run qcows images outside of /var/lib/libvirt/images/Recently I tried moving my KVM image from /var/lib/libvirt/images/ to a separate encrypted drive on Ubuntu 24.04. I copied it to that drive and changed the path in virt-manager. Now it keeps complaining:Error starting domain: Cannot access storage file '/media/username/disklabel/win11_fusion.qcow2' (as uid:64055, gid:993): Permission deniedI tried to chown the file, but that still doesn't help and I get the same error. I read somewhere that it has something to do with AppArmor and security settings of KVM, but it's a bit too complicated for me.Could someone tell me if it's possible to run the qcow2 from a separate folder or disk or alternatively encrypt the image itself?1upvote·17comments
ACPI BIOS Error (bug): Could not resolve symbol [\_TZ.ETMD], AE_NOT_FOUND ACPI BIOS Error (bug): Could not resolve symbol [\_TZ.ETMD], AE_NOT_FOUNDu/ProposalFearless1593•2 days agoACPI BIOS Error (bug): Could not resolve symbol [\_TZ.ETMD], AE_NOT_FOUNDHey, guys. I am new to ubuntu. Recently, when I rebooted my computer. These words are in my screen:ACPI BIOS Error (bug): Could not resolve symbol [\_TZ.ETMD], AE_NOT_FOUNDI have seen them before. They just existed a few moment and disappeared. But this time, my computer just froze and can't be turn off.
Creating bridge for VMs question Creating bridge for VMs questionu/deegee457•9 days agoCreating bridge for VMs questionHi All, me again!I’d like to create a bridge for my VM to use but I want to keep my main server to have a static IP & the VM to have a static IP as well.I’m creating a home assistant VM.I know I need to edit Netplan but I don’t want to mess to much and get it wrong!Current server IP is 192.168.4.156 and I’d like to keep that!VM can be anything as it isn’t set up yet.Any helps appreciated!
Ubuntu now available on K3/K1 Series RISC-V AI computing platforms Ubuntu now available on K3/K1 Series RISC-V AI computing platformsu/Icy-Primary2171•7 days agoUbuntu now available on K3/K1 Series RISC-V AI computing platformsUbuntu now available on K3/K1 Series RISC-V AI computing platformsr/spacemit_riscv•7 days agoUbuntu now available on K3/K1 Series RISC-V AI computing platformsSpacemiT announces the availability of  Ubuntu on K3/K1 series RISC-V AI computing platforms10upvotes·1comment
Undeletable notification?? Undeletable notification??u/idontwannadance0480•24 days agoUndeletable notification??
How to change saturation on laptop screen How to change saturation on laptop screenu/Julbo80•2 days agoHow to change saturation on laptop screenHow can I change saturation on my internal screen. AMD LACT does not support any changes of that kind.I do not want to just achieve a warmer color temperature but less saturation systemwide. I dont know how gamma relates to this.I can add an ICC profile but dont know how to make one myself. I dont need any precise calibration.It is a Lenovo Thinkpad, if that helps.
Having problems in ubuntu Having problems in ubuntuu/Silver-Branch2383•9 days agoHaving problems in ubuntuI dualbooted ubuntu alongside my mac intel and everything works but the screen sometimes randomly goes fully black and there is 3 dots on my wifi label indicating its not working i think even tho im connected i have to use a cable for connection. Any suggestions?
Can Anyone Help Me Diagnose a Gnome-shell Crash with SIGTRAP? Can Anyone Help Me Diagnose a Gnome-shell Crash with SIGTRAP?u/throwawayhpihq•9 days agoCan Anyone Help Me Diagnose a Gnome-shell Crash with SIGTRAP?Hellou/ubuntu,Basic computer specs:Processor: AMD 7970X ThreadripperMemory: 128 GB R-DIMMMotherboard: Asus TRX50 WSGPU 0: AMD Radeon 9060XTGPU 1 (System default GPU): AMD Radeon 9070The recent update of Firefox (via Snap) to version 147 has caused reproducible crashes of GDM 3 in Ubuntu 24.04.  Here is the process:I boot the computerStart FirefoxI then use the Tab Session Manager extension to load the tabs from the previous session.A bunch of windows open upThe GUI freezesThe .crash file of the most crash is 35MB.  I can share it if needed.I then R-E-I-S-U-B to try to regain control of the GUI.  The attempts fail, and I have to reboot the computer.After the most recent crash, I check /var/crash/ for the crash details, and found that the attempts to launch the previous session on Firefox is correlated to a gnome-shell crash SIGTRAP with.Things I've done to try try to fix this:sudo apt-get update && upgradesudo snap refreshSee if the same issue occurs with Xorg (This first happened with Wayland).  The behavior of the system after launching the previous session on Firefox was the same.I tried launching Firefox with GPU 0.  Same behavior.I tried uninstalling and reinstalling GDM3/Ubuntu Desktop.  No difference.I tried using Firefox directly from Mozilla's repository.  Same behavior.I tried Firefox from Flatpak. Same behavior.I tried Librewolf.  Same behavior.Does anyone have any input or suggestions on how to fix this?  I've had to switch to Chromium, and I'd rather not make that permanent.Thanks,
Made a GNOME extension for GitHub repos Made a GNOME extension for GitHub reposu/debba_•6 days agoMade a GNOME extension for GitHub repos
Should Canonical consider developing an official KDE Plasma edition of Ubuntu, similar to Fedora's approach with their KDE Plasma spin? Should Canonical consider developing an official KDE Plasma edition of Ubuntu, similar to Fedora's approach with their KDE Plasma spin?u/mr_MADAFAKA•25 days agoShould Canonical consider developing an official KDE Plasma edition of Ubuntu, similar to Fedora's approach with their KDE Plasma spin?
Primer dia en Ubuntu Primer dia en Ubuntuu/JoxxTo•9 days agoPrimer dia en UbuntuHoy recien empieza mi aventura con linux, borre directamente windows aun sin saber mucho sobre ubuntu, asi que voy con todo; apenas en el par de horas que le he dedicado me he sentido super feliz y comodo.Me siento en casa
adapter compatibility adapter compatibilityu/Max292911•9 days agoadapter compatibilityHiDoes anyone know if the TP-Link TL-WN722N V2/V3 adapter is compatible with Ubuntu Server 24.04?
Ubuntu audio pass through impossible ? Ubuntu audio pass through impossible ?u/linbeg•9 days agoUbuntu audio pass through impossible ?I’m watching movies in VLC and it looks like it converts audio Dolby digital plus to PCM , however, when I use windows it’s on same comp and VLC , it’s able to pass through Dolby digital plus normally to audio marantz reciever. I’m runing latest Ubuntu and pipewire- wondering if this is too niche of a question or if someone can help? Thanks you !Edit : latest Ubuntu and pipewire
New to linux New to linuxu/Alternative_Area6908•10 days agoNew to linuxHello ubuntu community! I wanted to ask why is everything in ubuntu so big (icons) nothing like windows. If some can explain me why or how to fix it i would be very happy. Thank you .
blur my shell is a bit problematic in ubuntu 24.04 with dock panel mode disabled. blur my shell is a bit problematic in ubuntu 24.04 with dock panel mode disabled.u/SH0080•10 days agoblur my shell is a bit problematic in ubuntu 24.04 with dock panel mode disabled.
Snapshot of installed programs and settings Snapshot of installed programs and settingsu/Julbo80•9 days agoSnapshot of installed programs and settingsIm loking for an option to save all settings and tweaks as well as installed programs on my Ubuntu system. I want to be able to go back and start from scratch. I dont need any files restored.Anything simple to use would be nice also.
Gnome Extension Gnome Extensionu/Cee-Rye•10 days agoGnome ExtensionGood day to y'allI just wanna ask if any of you guys have a recommendation for extensionsI am new an ubuntu and reddit btw
Questing Quokka - Inspired by Ubuntu release 25.10. Created with Krita & Blender in 93 days. Questing Quokka - Inspired by Ubuntu release 25.10. Created with Krita & Blender in 93 days.u/faith303•8 days agoQuesting Quokka - Inspired by Ubuntu release 25.10. Created with Krita & Blender in 93 days.
I learned 50 most important linux commands... I learned 50 most important linux commands...u/Kuestech•2 days agoI learned 50 most important linux commands...https://www.instagram.com/p/DUnliRsDyBE/?igsh=N2NzdW5hY3c5OTIw
nice and clean. nice and clean.u/SH0080•15 days agonice and clean.
Where I can download custom desktop configuration? Where I can download custom desktop configuration?u/Leonardoratgg•10 days agoWhere I can download custom desktop configuration?I have a traditional app panel position, but I want to make some difference and make it custom for me. Could anybody please help me or send a guide on how it's may change
[FIX] NVIDIA HDMI 2.1 Session Crashes (Apps Closing on Screen Lock / TV Off) [FIX] NVIDIA HDMI 2.1 Session Crashes (Apps Closing on Screen Lock / TV Off)u/tazztone•10 days ago[FIX] NVIDIA HDMI 2.1 Session Crashes (Apps Closing on Screen Lock / TV Off)hi so after an excrutiating hunt for causes of crashes i decided to share it:The Problem: On Ubuntu 25.10 (and other modern distros) with an RTX 30/40-series card and an HDMI 2.1 TV (4K@120Hz), turning the TV off or letting the screen blank would crash the entire GNOME Wayland session. Instead of a lock screen, you return to a fresh login with all open applications killed.The logs show a fatal error: kernel: nvidia-modeset: WARNING: GPU:0: HDMI FRL link training failed.The Cause: Modern NVIDIA drivers (550+) try to use "Deep Color" (10-bit or 12-bit) by default. On Linux, this frequently causes a hardware "handshake" failure during the FRL (Fixed Rate Link) training sequence when the monitor reconnects. Because Wayland is tightly coupled to the driver, this handshake failure crashes the entire desktop.The Solution: The fix involves forcing the HDMI link to a more stable 8-bit state and ensuring the driver stays active when the signal is lost.Disable HDMI Deep Color (The "Magic" Fix) This reduces bandwidth and bypasses the failing FRL link training code while keeping 4K @ 120Hz active.Open Terminal and edit GRUB: sudo nano /etc/default/grubAdd nvidia-modeset.hdmi_deepcolor=0 to the end of the GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT line.It should look like: GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash nvidia-modeset.hdmi_deepcolor=0"Save and Exit (Ctrl+O, Enter, Ctrl+X).Apply changes: sudo update-grub2. Enable Driver Persistence This prevents the driver from "sleeping" or restarting its internal state when the TV signal is lost.Run: sudo nvidia-smi -pm 1To make this permanent, create a systemd service or add the command to your startup scripts.Result: By forcing 8-bit color, the HDMI handshake succeeds every time the TV is turned back on. Your apps stay open, and you maintain 4K @ 120Hz performance on Wayland.
Moved to Ubuntu ( 24.04 LTS) from Windows 11. Moved to Ubuntu ( 24.04 LTS) from Windows 11.u/EarthAndAlgorithms•21 days agoMoved to Ubuntu ( 24.04 LTS) from Windows 11.Personal laptop, it's barely 3 years old and I didn't wanna upgrade so soon. It's such a breath of fresh air. I don't hate windows or anything, I completely understand why some might use it for games or use in corporate but quality has gotten worse especially for a paid product. Even if I disabled ads, they would start again after every update. Moving was seamless for me, I had minor issues with making my wireless mouse work but it worked fine after I updated it.Am I missing out on anything by choosing 24.04 instead of the24.1025.10 version ? Also is there a way to sync multiple devices? Like can I sync settings and apps if my laptop and desktop both have it?
Ubuntu setup Ubuntu setupu/brah__im2009•25 days agoUbuntu setup
Can't upgrade Ubuntu? Can't upgrade Ubuntu?u/Puzzled_Athlete_1253•3 days agoCan't upgrade Ubuntu?
Does Kubuntu release with Ubuntu LTS? Does Kubuntu release with Ubuntu LTS?u/horsesethawk•7 days agoDoes Kubuntu release with Ubuntu LTS?When Ubuntu releases 26.04 LTS, does Kubuntu release at the same time or is there a lag? Also, is there a place to see the updates in the new Kubuntu release?
Ubuntu on my old machine is FIRE. Project ideas? Ubuntu on my old machine is FIRE. Project ideas?u/Ok_Hand_2928•18 days agoUbuntu on my old machine is FIRE. Project ideas?
What made you use Ubuntu? What made you use Ubuntu?u/IsHyperactive_•2 days agoWhat made you use Ubuntu?
I literally took apart the AC remote and put a printed image of Ubuntu booting inside lol 😄 I literally took apart the AC remote and put a printed image of Ubuntu booting inside lol 😄u/VPringle•28 days agoI literally took apart the AC remote and put a printed image of Ubuntu booting inside lol 😄Update your A/C control :br/Ubuntu•8 yr. agoUpdate your A/C control :b321upvotes·27comments
Proxy setting Proxy settingu/guestly001•10 days agoProxy settingRecently i got a ubuntu os in my project. I spent my whole day of setting just proxy but still not done.My browser is working[open youtube], google ping is also working, but when i am doing 'sudo apt install git' it saying "Unable to connect proxy.company.com (IP).I tried all the internet things, setting /etc/environment, http_proxy, env...Still not working.Is there any solution, oreder wise or there something so i can bypass the proxy like wile booting there must be some configuration loading for proxy can we bypass?Please help me. I spent almost a day
Qué pasa si me paso a Ubuntu siendo estudiante High School Qué pasa si me paso a Ubuntu siendo estudiante High Schoolu/v10aT•10 days agoQué pasa si me paso a Ubuntu siendo estudiante High SchoolTengo esa cuestión, y mi laptop es buena. con 16GB de ram CPU AMD Ryzen 7 7730UTengo todavía una dual-boot, pero no me atrevo a dar el primer paso
Is the problem in me or in my machine? Is the problem in me or in my machine?u/Competitive-Abies846•10 days agoIs the problem in me or in my machine?Hello guys, I trying to install wine on my Ubuntu, so I opened a YouTube video and do as he did, but I get an error saying that no package found or something like that! Where is the problem?
I hate Ubuntu Ram Managment 😡 I hate Ubuntu Ram Managment 😡u/iCLX75•9 days agoI hate Ubuntu Ram Managment 😡I recently bought a new laptop and installed Ubuntu on it. I'm a developer who regularly runs multiple applications simultaneously (IDEs, browsers with many tabs, terminals, Docker, databases, etc.).Laptop specs:16 GB DDR4 RAM 12 GB swap 256 GB SSD Intel Core i5 10th genThe problem is that even with 16 GB of RAM, usage regularly reaches ~13 GB, and my swap space is almost always full. I understand Linux likes to use available memory for caching, but in practice this is causing serious issues:The system frequently becomes unresponsive (severe lag, frozen UI). I often have to force shutdown/reboot the laptop.Running Docker is practically impossible without immediately hitting memory pressure.I’ve tried manually managing memory by closing unnecessary programs and scripts when not needed, but I still have to constantly monitor usage, which defeats the purpose of having a capable laptop.I bought this machine specifically so I could keep my development environment open and pick up exactly where I left off after suspend. Right now, the heavy swapping and occasional hangs are making the experience very frustrating.I'm just writing this to vent my frustrationEdit: Sawpiness is 10Have to run multiple vs code window for personal and my company projects.Chrome tabs sometimes are 20 to 25 but not always, I changed my behavior to close most of the tabs.I know more swapiness will consume more life of my ssdAround 4 workspaces are always being used, for diffrent purposes, job/personal projects (Next Js)/entertainment/studyMost of time have to run two repos simultaneously of same project front/back endDocker always remains stoped! No container are running at all
Trying to configure mousekeys Trying to configure mousekeysu/Grentain•10 days agoTrying to configure mousekeysI'm trying to solve an issue that I'm having with the Ubuntu equivalent of Mousekeys. I'm trying to get it to work in a specific way to save myself destroying my wrist with an incredibly repetitive task, and I can't seem to find a way to configure it.Essentially what I want is for the mouse to move a specific distance with one stroke on the number pad, and no further. However, with the configurations I've found, the mousekeys continue to move the cursor and I can't rapidly change directions the way I'd like to. I thought turning Repeat Keys off might do what I want (effectively restricting one "movement" of the cursor to one key stroke), but that didn't translate.I can't see any more settings to modify anything other than movement speed, accel rate, and start delay. Does anyone happen to know anything more that I could modify?As an aside, additional scripting/automation is a no-go for this. I'm essentially just trying to get this software to function the same way as Windows' Mousekeys.
Is Ubuntu actually a bad distro? Is Ubuntu actually a bad distro?u/_sifatullah•2 days agoIs Ubuntu actually a bad distro?Just watchedthis videoon a recent article from The Verge (https://www.theverge.com/report/875077/linux-was-a-mistake). The guy is claiming almost all the problem mentioned in the article were solely because the author chose Ubuntu, rather than some other distro.
How do I get access to my old Windows files? How do I get access to my old Windows files?u/5Daydreams•10 days agoHow do I get access to my old Windows files?Hello there, I recently switched from Windows, I'm not super-duper tech savvy, but I can sort out things if I am guided.I was told I'd have to change this partition because the encrypting or something was a windows-specific configuration - I thought this wouldn't be a short term problem, but it apparently is now? lolAnyways, absolutely any input here is helpful, as I have no idea what's going on, and am completely new to Ubuntuupdate.:Wow, I managed to get on a call with a friend, and I lost most of my folders already - thankfully I salvaged the majority of the important files, but there ain't much more I can do - damnThanks to the comments I already had half of the questions answered to get things fixed up, but SMART said it was physical damage, so there wasn't much to be done besides praying : /
My Simple Ubuntu 24.04 LTS desktop My Simple Ubuntu 24.04 LTS desktopu/Rickykive•15 days agoMy Simple Ubuntu 24.04 LTS desktop
Can't upgrade Ubuntu? Can't upgrade Ubuntu?u/Puzzled_Athlete_1253•3 days agoCan't upgrade Ubuntu?
I Just got it!!!!! First thing I shood do? I Just got it!!!!! First thing I shood do?u/This_Supermarket_203•5 days agoI Just got it!!!!! First thing I shood do?Fallowing a video (and some help from AI) I got my Old PC that was running windows 10 to run Ubuntu as the only OS, whats the first thing i shood do?
Can't control fan speed on gtx 970 in ubuntu?? Can't control fan speed on gtx 970 in ubuntu??u/No-Fruit-7213•5 days agoCan't control fan speed on gtx 970 in ubuntu??I switched to unbuntu after windows 10 support stopped as the gtx 970 has issues with windows 11, after about a month of being on ubuntu, I finally decided I wanted to game, but I ran into a road block, the game I want to play works fine but I can't change fan speed on my nvidia gpu no mater what method I try..It told me to sign in as Xorg to have these options but my install doesn't have xorg or whatever it is called as an option, so am I F%$%£???
Have you heard of Ubuntu 13? Have you heard of Ubuntu 13?u/Important_Cap_3306•15 days agoHave you heard of Ubuntu 13?
A Python solution for having a Ubuntu/GNOME-based home server automatically go to sleep when not in use A Python solution for having a Ubuntu/GNOME-based home server automatically go to sleep when not in useu/ggende•10 days agoA Python solution for having a Ubuntu/GNOME-based home server automatically go to sleep when not in useA Python solution for having a Ubuntu/GNOME-based home server automatically go to sleep when not in user/HomeServer•10 days agoA Python solution for having a Ubuntu/GNOME-based home server automatically go to sleep when not in useHello everyone!I recently moved my home server back to Ubuntu due to the Windows 10 EOL.  I wanted an automatic sleep setup that would check for several different kinds of activity (file share access, web server sessions, in-progress backups, SSH sessions) and go to sleep automatically if nothing had been detected for an hour.After a lot of searching for a good solution around the internet, I decided to make my own.  I'm sharing it here in case anybody else finds it useful.  It requires a bit Python and Linux CLI knowledge to configure.The Scriptimport subprocess from sys import exit  # Amount of minutes between each execution of this script # **Important** The same interval must be set in the cron job RUN_INTERVAL = 10  # Amount of idle minutes until the system should be suspended TIMEOUT = 60  def CmdToInt(cmd):     try:         output = subprocess.check_output(cmd, shell=True, text=True)         return int(output.strip())     except subprocess.CalledProcessError as e:         if str(e) == "Command 'cat /var/tmp/suscount' \ returned non-zero exit status 1.":             WriteCount(0)             return 0         else:             print(f"Error running command: {e}")             exit(1)     except ValueError:         print("Command output was not a valid number.")         exit(1)  def CheckIdleTimes():     cmd = "loginctl list-users | grep -v 'LINGER STATE' | \         grep -v 'users listed' | awk '{print $2}'"     user_list = subprocess.check_output(cmd, shell=True, text=True)     min_idle = (TIMEOUT * 2) * 60000     for user in user_list.splitlines():         if user == "":             continue         user_idle = GetIdleTime(user)         if user_idle < min_idle:             min_idle = user_idle     return min_idle  def GetIdleTime(user):     cmd = f"pgrep -u {user} gnome-shell | head -n 1"     pid = subprocess.check_output(cmd, shell=True, text=True).strip()      cmd = f"sudo grep -z DBUS_SESSION_BUS_ADDRESS /proc/{pid}/environ\         | cut -d= -f2-"     bus = subprocess.check_output(cmd, shell=True, text=True)     bus = bus.strip().replace('\x00', '')      cmd = f"sudo -u {user} DBUS_SESSION_BUS_ADDRESS=\"{bus}\" gdbus call \         --session --dest org.gnome.Mutter.IdleMonitor \         --object-path /org/gnome/Mutter/IdleMonitor/Core \         --method org.gnome.Mutter.IdleMonitor.GetIdletime"     raw_time = subprocess.check_output(cmd, shell=True, text=True).strip()          return int(raw_time[8:-2])  def WriteCount(count):     with open("/var/tmp/suscount", "w") as file:         file.write(str(count))  counter = CmdToInt("cat /var/tmp/suscount")  # #################################################################### # ######### Commands to Check for Relevant System Activity ########### # ####################################################################  shared = CmdToInt("lsof -w | grep /srv/samba/shared_folder/ | wc -l") web = CmdToInt("ss -an | grep -e ':80' -e ':443' | \                 grep -e 'ESTAB' -e 'TIME-WAIT' | wc -l") backup = CmdToInt("ps -e | grep 'duplicity' | wc -l") logged_in = CmdToInt("who | wc -l")  ###################################################################### # ## The If-Statement Below Needs to be Tailored to Each Use Case #### ######################################################################  if (shared + web + backup + logged_in) > 0: #True if activity detected     if counter > 0:         WriteCount(0)     exit(0)  counter += 1 WriteCount(counter)  idle_mins = CheckIdleTimes() // 60000 if idle_mins < (counter * RUN_INTERVAL):     counter = idle_mins // RUN_INTERVAL  if (counter * RUN_INTERVAL) >= TIMEOUT:     WriteCount(0)     subprocess.run("systemctl suspend", shell=True, text=True)  exit(0)ConfigurationThis script needs to be customized in 4 ways:Set the “RUN_INTERVAL”: This represents the time, in minutes, between each time the script is run. This same number will be set in a cron job later.Set the “TIMEOUT”: This is how long the computer needs to be inactive before it will be suspended. It won’t be suspended exactly at this time, but rather the first time the script runs when it has been inactive for at least this long.Configure the commands that will check for activity: This is the most complicated part of the setup and requires some familiarity with Python and using the Linux command line interface. Each command should return an integer value that can be stored for later. I have four commands that check for activity:The first checks if there are any active connections to my file share folder. If you are looking for the same functionality, just change “/srv/samba/shared_folder/” to the path of your shared folder.The second checks if there are any active web connections. This command should be fairly universal for that purpose, presuming standard settings (e.g. using default ports).The third checks if a duplicity backup is in progress, so I won’t have the server go to sleep mid-backup. In my case, duplicity initiates web connections that will be caught by the prior command, but I figured it’s best to explicitly check for this anyway, just to be sure. This command can search for any program by replacing “duplicity” with the name of the program you are looking for.The fourth command checks if anyone is logged in to the server. This command should also be universal for this purpose.All of the commands end with “| wc -l“, which counts the number of lines returned by the preceding parts of the command. This is what converts it into number for the python script.3The if statement that determines if activity was detected may need to be modified. In my case, all of the commands will result in 0 if no activity is detected. As long as all of my results add up to 0, nothing was detected. However, there may be other commands that always have results, and anything above a particular baseline would indicate activity. The if statement would need to be tailored to that situation.After all of the above is complete, the script will check the idle time for anyone logged into a desktop session and adjust as necessary. This will also detect any recent activity at the login screen.Other Required SetupEnsure Wake-on-LAN is enabled on the serverEnsure the script file is executableCreate a cron job to run the script (using the same frequency as the RUN_INTERVAL in the script)I'd appreciate any feedback or recommendations.  Hopefully somebody else finds this useful!  Also, I'm new to posting on Reddit (long time lurker), so hopefully I got the formatting right.1comment
Не закускается Linux Ubuntu Не закускается Linux Ubuntuu/Fast-Sherbert-6537•10 days agoНе закускается Linux Ubuntu
Issues with Ubuntu 24.04 realtime on new hardware (ryzen 9 9550X/RTX5080) Issues with Ubuntu 24.04 realtime on new hardware (ryzen 9 9550X/RTX5080)u/txanpi•10 days agoIssues with Ubuntu 24.04 realtime on new hardware (ryzen 9 9550X/RTX5080)Hello,My deparment bought a new PC last month and we are having issuees with what it seems to be hardware incompatibilities with the realtime kernel of ubuntu 24.04? We need to use this kernel in order to control a robot that requires this type of kernel.PC specs:Ryzen 9 5500xNVIDIA RTX5080motherboard X870E GAMING PLUS WIFIThe issue I'm facing when installing the 6.8 kernel are two actually:It doesnt recognize the network card.If we connect any usb device, is constantly verbosing in the tty console errors about those usb devices.My first guess is that maybe the realtime kernels arent prepared for the new hardware and this is why I'm having issues?Would installing ubuntu 25.10 realtime 6.14 fix this or do we need to wait for the 26 version release?Any help would be appreciated as it is a quite urgent issue.
Opera - Context menu bug - Ubuntu - only when connected to external display (displaylink) Opera - Context menu bug - Ubuntu - only when connected to external display (displaylink)u/Ok_Hand_2928•10 days agoOpera - Context menu bug - Ubuntu - only when connected to external display (displaylink)Opera - Context menu bug - Ubuntu - only when connected to external display (displaylink)r/operabrowser•10 days agoOpera - Context menu bug - Ubuntu - only when connected to external display (displaylink)Hello. I am coming here to ask for some help.. i am really annoyed by this issue especially because it randomly started to behave like this, 10 minutes ago all was fine, after 10 minutes, doing nothing it started behaving like this.So first of all i will start with the bookmarks bar- weirdly the folders on the right side are clickable and i am able to select any bookmark from it but the folders at the beginning of the bar don't work. Click or click right, nothing is happening.Also beside the Bookmark bar issues the most annoying one is the context menu.As you can see below i have to move my curson on the arrow to see what is in that menu.If i click right on a tab, its actually smaller...Click right inside a page, does not show the full list-------------------My system is:_________________As I stated this only happens when i have an external display connected via DisplayLink via USB-C.I am not able to check via actual HDMI cable since my port is broken, however this did not happen before, and it happened randomly, between the time when it worked and when it stopped working i did not install any software and/or modify anything.I tried to reset Opera and its still the same, i've pkilled it, nothing.I can confirm that i have the latest updates for opera ( some update came today and i did it )  and also my Ubuntu is up to date.I've reset all settings to defaul in opera and still nothing.I dont know what to do with this browser, unfortunately i like it.Any advice?1upvote·6comments
iperf  3 not working with Synology NAS? iperf  3 not working with Synology NAS?u/CuriousDivide2425•10 days agoiperf  3 not working with Synology NAS?On my Synology NAS, I'm running iperf3 with the--serverflag on "Container Manager" (Docker from Synology Package Center), and then I went on another computer, which is running Ubuntu, and I open a terminal on it and ran the iperf3 with the-cflag, followed by the NAS's local IP address, but it returns an error that says "iperf3: error - unable to send control message; Bad file descriptor"Why isn't iperf3 working correctly?Edit: Nevermind, I fixed it. It was set to "bridge" network instead of "host" network
What in tf is DKMS? I will kms over this for sure. What in tf is DKMS? I will kms over this for sure.u/infinitus_02•2 days agoWhat in tf is DKMS? I will kms over this for sure.Ubuntu: 24.04.2 LTSKernel: Linux 6.14.0-37-genercOk so I was trying to install another application for fixing ntfs partitions on my laptop, but I got errors with dkms and virtualbox and I am concerned if I had a clean installation or no. I am very new to linux and ubuntu so I am not very familiar with fixing errors like this. I checked around and got very mixed answers about dealing with this.make -j4 KERNELRELEASE=6.17.0-14-generic -C /lib/modules/6.17.0-14-generic/build M=/var/lib/dkms/virtualbox/7.0.16/build...(bad exit status: 2) ERROR: Cannot create report: [Errno 17] File exists: '/var/crash/virtualbox-dkms.0.crash' Error! Bad return status for module build on kernel: 6.17.0-14-generic (x86_64) Consult /var/lib/dkms/virtualbox/7.0.16/build/make.log for more information. dkms autoinstall on 6.17.0-14-generic/x86_64 failed for virtualbox(10) Error! One or more modules failed to install during autoinstall. Refer to previous errors for more information.  * dkms: autoinstall for kernel 6.17.0-14-generic    ...fail! run-parts: /etc/kernel/postinst.d/dkms exited with return code 11 dpkg: error processing package linux-image-6.17.0-14-generic (--configure):  installed linux-image-6.17.0-14-generic package post-installation script subprocess returned error exit status 11 No apport report written because MaxReports is reached already                                                               Errors were encountered while processing:  linux-headers-6.17.0-14-generic  linux-headers-generic-hwe-24.04  linux-generic-hwe-24.04  linux-image-6.17.0-14-generic E: Sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (1)
No puedo jugar left 4 dead 2 en ubuntu No puedo jugar left 4 dead 2 en ubuntuu/Educational_Lock4269•10 days agoNo puedo jugar left 4 dead 2 en ubuntuHolaa quiero preguntarles por qué no puedo jugar left 4 dead 2 en ubuntu  tengo la versión 24.04.3 tengo una computadora de bajos recursos precisamente una Ideapad 1 14IGL05 cuenta con un Intel celeron n4020 de dos nucleos, 4 gb de ram , y 64 gb de almacenamiento, a la hora de usar left 4 dead en Steam va a muy pocos fps , pero antes usaba Windows 11 donde iba de 30 a 50 fps en gráficos bajos ,después use garuda linux en donde los fps subieron de 40 a 60 fps , si saben de una recomendación o cambiarme de sistema operativo se los agradecería mucho
Help with putting Ubuntu on a Mircosoft Surface Go 2 Laptop Help with putting Ubuntu on a Mircosoft Surface Go 2 Laptopu/a_Tin_of_Spam•2 days agoHelp with putting Ubuntu on a Mircosoft Surface Go 2 LaptopGreetings, I am here to ask a couple things about putting Ubuntu on my MS Surface laptop.Just quickly, I will mention that I already have a USB with the Ubuntu boot key on it, I have successfully installed Ubuntu on an old potato laptop I had lying around, and had no issues there, although I should say that the potato laptop had a complete reset before installing and also I installed Ubuntu onto it without trying to keep my old files.Mainly 2 things:- Can I keep all my files and apps that I actually want/need while nuking away all the windows bloat apps? I don't want to end up accidentally removing necessary things when trying to rid myself of the stuff I dont want. I have a lot of files, and some weird apps which I need for university work which I need to keep.- Is there software available or a driver to allow for the fingerpint scanner on the laptop to function within Ubuntu? I don't care about touchscreen, just the fingerprint scannerFor reference, I dont know if this is the exact model as mine is a couple years old, but the specs match, I have one of these:https://www.pbtech.co.nz/product/NBKMST12325693/Microsoft-Surface-Laptop-Go-3-124---Ice-Blue-Ex-St?srsltid=AfmBOoq-DVou93jRwPr2E7bLVt3lp0Pzn8S6SsXdWqqu8aTT0hjaqYn6Essentially Ive grown progressively more and more sick of windows and its bloat, unnecessary unremovable apps, compulsory sign ins, ads, and more over the past 2 years. It's served me well but I'd quite like to switch over to linux if I can.
Someone needs to update the software updater Someone needs to update the software updateru/the-machine-m4n•23 days agoSomeone needs to update the software updater
WSL SSL problem WSL SSL problemu/Jackobeard_•10 days agoWSL SSL problemWSL SSL problemr/Ubuntu•10 days agoWSL SSL problemwhen i run wgethttps://www.torproject.org/dist/torbrowser/launcher/tor-browser-linux-x86_64.tar.xzit says unable to establish SSL connection7comments
WSL SSL problem WSL SSL problemu/Jackobeard_•10 days agoWSL SSL problemwhen i run wgethttps://www.torproject.org/dist/torbrowser/launcher/tor-browser-linux-x86_64.tar.xzit says unable to establish SSL connection
What Boot Setup on MSI GL75 Laptop to Install Ubuntu? What Boot Setup on MSI GL75 Laptop to Install Ubuntu?u/kevsmakin•10 days agoWhat Boot Setup on MSI GL75 Laptop to Install Ubuntu?Im trying to install ubuntu on an MSI GL75 Leaopard 10SDR laptopSystem only boots to windows 10 home.I have on a kingston data traveler 3.0 57.7gb usb dirveOnly file on usb is "ubuntu-24.04.3-desktop-amd64.iso" type disc image file.I have fast boot set to “disabled”boot mode select set to “UEFI with CSM”Boot option #1 set to “usb hard disk”Boot option #2 set to “USB CD/DVD”Boot option #3 set to “network”Boot option #4 set to “Hard disk: windows boot ma…”System only boots to windows 10 home.
Help with auto-mounting secondary drive + Windows partition Help with auto-mounting secondary drive + Windows partitionu/rutotrash•2 days agoHelp with auto-mounting secondary drive + Windows partition
About helping to expand a partition on a disk for Linux Ubuntu. About helping to expand a partition on a disk for Linux Ubuntu.u/orest_chornobai•4 days agoAbout helping to expand a partition on a disk for Linux Ubuntu.Hello! I need your help. I have 370 GB of free disk space, and there is also a 120 GB partition on this disk with Linux Ubuntu installed. Is there a way to expand the disk?
I wonder if Linux is ready yet? (Immediately fails) Nope! I wonder if Linux is ready yet? (Immediately fails) Nope!u/laserdicks•10 days agoI wonder if Linux is ready yet? (Immediately fails) Nope!Was genuinely shocked to find Steam in the app store, and installed it. I thought :"goodness! Maybe Linux is actually useable!"It won't open from the Open button in the app store.It won't open from the app menu.Restart.It won't open from the app menu.Linux will never go mainstream. We're stuck with windows forever.
SSD not showing even with lsblk-f and fdisk-l commands SSD not showing even with lsblk-f and fdisk-l commandsu/stonerthoughtsss•3 days agoSSD not showing even with lsblk-f and fdisk-l commands
Ubuntu Minimal Install Ubuntu Minimal Installu/worldsfinest2•11 days agoUbuntu Minimal InstallHi! I'm about to switch to Ubuntu from Arch for some reason. Is there any way to have a minimal install, like no DE and unwanted packages? And, I wanna install WM instead of DE and just install packages I want. Is it possible in Ubuntu?Thank you!
I Did upgrade my Ubuntu 24.04 to 25.10 and I had issue I Did upgrade my Ubuntu 24.04 to 25.10 and I had issueu/Excellent_League1064•3 days agoI Did upgrade my Ubuntu 24.04 to 25.10 and I had issueafter updating my Ubuntu 25.10 version my laptop rebooted and showed me that : BusyBox v1.37.0 (Ubuntu 1:1.37.0-4ubuntu1) built-in shell (ash) Enter 'help' for a list of built-in commands.I tried everything to solve it but it is still not working.Does anyone know how to fix the problem.thank you.
Windows 11 is killing my laptop. Is Ubuntu GNOME a good move for a Developer? Windows 11 is killing my laptop. Is Ubuntu GNOME a good move for a Developer?u/rachid_nichan•13 days agoWindows 11 is killing my laptop. Is Ubuntu GNOME a good move for a Developer?Hi everyone,​I'm struggling with Windows 11 performance and battery life on my laptop. I’m a Web and Android Developer, and I’m considering switching to Ubuntu.​My Specs: ​CPU: Intel Core i5-1035G1 (4C/8T, up to 3.60 GHz) ​RAM: 12GB ​Storage: 256GB SSD ​GPU: Intel UHD Graphics (128MB dedicated)​My Questions: ​Will GNOME run smoothly on these specs without the lag I experience on Win 11?​Since I use VS Code, Chrome, and Android Studio, is there a better Ubuntu-based flavor/distro for my specific CPU/GPU combo?​I value a clean UI (like GNOME) but performance is my priority. Thanks!
my desktop (recently got Ubuntu) my desktop (recently got Ubuntu)u/RBDYT•8 days agomy desktop (recently got Ubuntu)
Close CUPS alternative to windows printing? Close CUPS alternative to windows printing?u/sae312km44•11 days agoClose CUPS alternative to windows printing?
MediaTek MT7902 Wi-Fi not working on Ubuntu 24.04 – ASUS VivoBook Go 14 (E1404FA) MediaTek MT7902 Wi-Fi not working on Ubuntu 24.04 – ASUS VivoBook Go 14 (E1404FA)[deleted]•5 days agoMediaTek MT7902 Wi-Fi not working on Ubuntu 24.04 – ASUS VivoBook Go 14 (E1404FA)MediaTek MT7902 Wi-Fi not working on Ubuntu 24.04 – ASUS VivoBook Go 14 (E1404FA)r/Ubuntu•5 days agoMediaTek MT7902 Wi-Fi not working on Ubuntu 24.04 – ASUS VivoBook Go 14 (E1404FA)Hi everyone,I recently tried installing Ubuntu 24.04 LTS on my ASUS VivoBook Go 14 (E1404FA), and overall the system runs very smoothly. Performance is solid, AMD Ryzen 5 7520U works perfectly, and everything else seems fine.However, the internal Wi-Fi adapter (MediaTek MT7902) is not working.System Details: 🔸Laptop: ASUS VivoBook Go 14 (E1404FA) 🔸CPU: AMD Ryzen 5 7520U 🔸RAM: 16 GB 🔸Storage: 512 GB SSD 🔸Wi-Fi: MediaTek MT7902 🔸Ubuntu Version: 24.04 LTS😔Issue: 🚫 The Wi-Fi adapter appears in hardware listings. 🚫No working driver module is loaded. 🚫Network Manager does not show any wireless networks. 🚫Bluetooth behavior is inconsistent.USB tethering works, so the system itself is stable. The only blocker is the internal MT7902 Wi-Fi driver support.From what I understand, MT7902 does not yet have proper upstream Linux kernel support. I couldn’t find any stable driver solution.🙌Questions:❓❓ ➡️ Is there any ongoing work toward proper MT7902 support in upcoming kernels?➡️ Has anyone successfully managed to get it working with a custom driver?➡️ Would replacing the internal card with an Intel AX200/AX210 be the most practical solution?I’d really prefer to run Ubuntu as my primary OS, but the Wi-Fi limitation makes it difficult for daily use.Any guidance or updates would be appreciated.Thanks!3upvotes·2comments
Need help "failed to read me firmware" Need help "failed to read me firmware"u/Much_Elk3853•2 days agoNeed help "failed to read me firmware"I've had this message for a few months now. When I noticed it I lost both my sound output and input with it. I tried a few tweaks that I dont remember but it didnt do a thing. Today I decided to finally do a full clean reinstall of ubuntu and when I started the computer... I got the same message. Is there no way out of this mess?
How do I move this little dude? It's always exactly in the middle of my way. I swear I was able to move it before. How do I move this little dude? It's always exactly in the middle of my way. I swear I was able to move it before.u/Zerocyde•4 days agoHow do I move this little dude? It's always exactly in the middle of my way. I swear I was able to move it before.
apt.t2linux.org unreachable for me – is there a mirror or alternative repo? apt.t2linux.org unreachable for me – is there a mirror or alternative repo?u/stoikrus1•6 days agoapt.t2linux.org unreachable for me – is there a mirror or alternative repo?Hi everyone,[firstly, apologies in advance for using chat gpt to draft this]I’m trying to get Linux running properly on a MacBook Pro 2019 (Intel, T2) and I’ve hit a wall that I can’t seem to get past.The core issue is that apt.t2linux.org and repo.t2linux.org are completely unreachable from my network. DNS resolution fails consistently, while everything else (Ubuntu mirrors, GitHub, etc.) works fine. I’m in India, if that matters.Because of this, I can’t install the T2 kernel, and as expected internal keyboard, trackpad and Wi-Fi don’t work on Ubuntu 22.04 or Fedora (both tested).Things I’ve already tried:•Ubuntu 22.04 and Fedora 43  •IPv4-only / IPv6-only  •Different DNS servers  •GitHub-hosted repos (apple-bce installs fine, but there’s no T2 kernel or applespi packages there)  •Verified general network/DNS works normally.At this point I’m stuck purely because I can’t access the T2Linux repo.So I wanted to ask:•Is there any mirror of apt.t2linux.org?  •Or an alternative repo / static archive for the linux-t2 kernel and related drivers?  •Or is this repo known to be blocked or unreachable from certain regions/ISPs?I’m totally fine doing a manual install (dpkg) if that’s the only way — I just need access to the actual packages.Any pointers would be really appreciated.Thanks!
How to set up a stable remote connection How to set up a stable remote connectionu/SunInevitable8008•11 days agoHow to set up a stable remote connectionHow to set up a stable remote connectionu/SunInevitable8008•11 days agoHow to set up a stable remote connectionI have a problem I leave the server with a running rdp session via mobaxterm and the next day I have a crash session I have ubuntu 22.04 gnome and xrdp1upvote
Ubuntu vs Parrot OS for learning cybersecurity + privacy on M1 Mac (via UTM) – what do you prefer? Ubuntu vs Parrot OS for learning cybersecurity + privacy on M1 Mac (via UTM) – what do you prefer?u/pookienav•6 days agoUbuntu vs Parrot OS for learning cybersecurity + privacy on M1 Mac (via UTM) – what do you prefer?Setting up a VM on my M1 Mac via UTM for learning cybersecurity basics + strong privacy (Tor/sandboxing/easy service control). I want to avoid Kali’s bloat (too many auto-running services).Parrot OS has official ARM64 + .utm files for UTM, Home edition looks light/privacy-focused, and I can add tools as needed.But I like Ubuntu’s stability and huge community—install only what I want, no extras.For this use case (cyber learning/privacy in UTM on Apple Silicon):•  Plain Ubuntu ARM64 + manual tool installs?•  Or Parrot Home for built-in privacy features?Any experiences with either on UTM/M1? Gotchas or recommendations?
issue with blender 5.0 save dialog or any window panel freezing. pls help im new issue with blender 5.0 save dialog or any window panel freezing. pls help im newu/Specialist-Sky7117•11 days agoissue with blender 5.0 save dialog or any window panel freezing. pls help im newUPDATE: running blender through the terminal with WAYLAND_DISPLAY="" blender solved the issue!Here's how to make it permanent, run:find /var/lib/snapd/desktop/applications /usr/share/applications -name "blender.desktop" 2>/dev/nullthen take the output (in my case was: /var/lib/snapd/desktop/applications/blender_blender.desktop) and run:cp /var/lib/snapd/desktop/applications/blender_blender.desktop ~/.local/share/applications/then run: gnome-text-editor ~/.local/share/applications/blender_blender.desktopthen look for the line that starts with Exec... and replace it with:Exec=env WAYLAND_DISPLAY="" /snap/bin/blender %fthen save that file, then run:update-desktop-database ~/.local/share/applications/then reopen blender and it should workORIGINAL POST: installed ubuntu a few days ago, dual booting on 2 seperate ssd's. (i5 12400f, 16gb ddr4, 3060ti)i knew nvidia gona have somw issues, i installed the proper drivers and whatnot. but im having an issue with blender 5.0. when i try to save or even open the preferences window it comes up with a completely blank window and goes unresponsive and freezes. happens every time. no idea how to fix it, i tried everything!
Ubuntu 25.10 randomly crash Ubuntu 25.10 randomly crashu/NightChant_•11 days agoUbuntu 25.10 randomly crashI recently switched from Windows 11 to Ubuntu 25.10, but  it randomly freezes all the time. I think the problem is with my video card (I have rtx 5060ti) and I've used both 590.x and 580.x drivers, but it doesn't change. What should I do in this situation?
Malware Peddlers Are Now Hijacking Snap Publisher Domains Malware Peddlers Are Now Hijacking Snap Publisher Domainsu/popeydc•26 days agoMalware Peddlers Are Now Hijacking Snap Publisher Domainshttps://blog.popey.com/2026/01/malware-purveyors-taking-over-published-snap-email-domains/
Are we going to pretend they didn't route all traffic through amazon? Plenty of distros aren't spyware. Are we going to pretend they didn't route all traffic through amazon? Plenty of distros aren't spyware.u/Wonderful-Union-5328•2 days agoAre we going to pretend they didn't route all traffic through amazon? Plenty of distros aren't spyware.
My life 😭 My life 😭u/v10aT•10 days agoMy life 😭My life 😭r/Ubuntu•10 days agoMy life 😭No se que hacer, porque para volver a instalar Windows debo bootear de nuevo una flash y para instalar de seguro me ha de ser problema por el GPT7comments
I feel this subreddit accepts to many desktop screenshots I feel this subreddit accepts to many desktop screenshotsu/illmatix•17 days agoI feel this subreddit accepts to many desktop screenshotsI feel that there has a been a massive increase of Ubuntu customization posts happening in this subreddit. I think this should be a point where we say maybe once a month in a single thread... Maybe that's just me but I've followed for years and now just turned off by all the anime, and haxor like desktop submissions. I like good UI but i'm not seeing it in the recent submissions.
Ubuntu 24.04 doesn’t fully power off on ASUS X407U (screen black, power LED still on) Ubuntu 24.04 doesn’t fully power off on ASUS X407U (screen black, power LED still on)u/nunuzak•2 days agoUbuntu 24.04 doesn’t fully power off on ASUS X407U (screen black, power LED still on)Hi guys! I’m completely new to Linux and recently switched from Windows. I did a fresh install of Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTS, but I’m having an issue where my laptop doesn’t fully shut down.When I select Power Off, the screen turns black as expected, but the power LED remains on and I can still hear the fans moving, I think the system doesn’t actually power down. I end up needing to hold the power button to force shutdown.System info:Laptop: ASUS X407UCPU: Intel(R) Core(TM) i3-8130U @ 2.20GHzGPU: NVIDIA MX130OS: Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTS (fresh install)At the time, I was only running Mozilla and Discord, just casually watching youtube videos.Since this is a clean install and I’m very new to Ubuntu, I’m not sure what to do. I’d appreciate any guidance on what logs to check or what steps to try next. Beginner-friendly explanations would help a lot.Thanks in advance!
My Ubuntu 24 Desktop My Ubuntu 24 Desktopu/RaxccLogs•18 days agoMy Ubuntu 24 Desktop
This reddit is also getting trashed by the spammers doing screen shots for kharma mining This reddit is also getting trashed by the spammers doing screen shots for kharma miningu/bundymania•12 days agoThis reddit is also getting trashed by the spammers doing screen shots for kharma miningThe only purpose of those screen shots is for them to build up karma points, then they switch to porn and other stuff. linuxmint reddit has fallen this way also and it appears the mods here don't care.  This stuff was supposed to be onr/unixpornThey "aren't switching to linux" and if you follow their history, you'll see they always end up switching to porn. The key is the 4 numbers after their user name, an always cold tell.Suckers...
qBittorrent (old version install) qBittorrent (old version install)u/10handicap•2 days agoqBittorrent (old version install)I've been trying for 2 hours to install an older version of qBittorrent and I don't really know what I'm doing.  I tried enabling Run as an Executable and double click does nothing.All the guides I've been able to find only pertain to latest version installs.Edit:  Buddy says version shouldn't matter for the site, going to ignore for now.
My Ubuntu Desktop 😈 My Ubuntu Desktop 😈u/Sea_Fuel_471•13 days agoMy Ubuntu Desktop 😈
Pc keeps crashing due to "usb 4 being bad", how do I identify which port is usb 4 and what device is attached? Pc keeps crashing due to "usb 4 being bad", how do I identify which port is usb 4 and what device is attached?u/WOODSHOE123•11 days agoPc keeps crashing due to "usb 4 being bad", how do I identify which port is usb 4 and what device is attached?As the title says during some games my pc crashes and I see a black screen that says something along the lines of a USB4 going bad. How do I fix this? ):
Need Help Installing Ubuntu - Boot Loop From USB Need Help Installing Ubuntu - Boot Loop From USBu/Alcrionaz•11 days agoNeed Help Installing Ubuntu - Boot Loop From USBI'm currently trying to install ubuntu 24.04.3 LTS onto my desktop, and whenever I select the try and install ubuntu option on GRUB, it will throw an error like this and then move forward to the splash screen of ubuntu with the loading wheel. After about 30 seconds of sitting on the splash screen, it reboots to GRUB. I've tried updating my bios, disabling secure boot, and disabling c state control in my BIOS. I've also tried 2 different USBs using Rufus. My current OS is Windows 11, and I've never had trouble booting up windows or loading it from a USB, let alone get an mce error. What am I missing here? Help would be greatly appreciated!SYSTEM SPECS:AMD Ryzen 5 3600 6-Core Processor - CPUMSI MPG B550 GAMING PLUS - MotherboardNVIDIA GeForce RTX 3060 - GPU16GB GSkill Ripjaws - RamSAMSUNG SSD 870 EVO 2TB - Storage
My life 😭 My life 😭u/v10aT•10 days agoMy life 😭I was planning to switch completely to Ubuntu, but I'm a student and I need some applications that only work natively on Windows :(
ubuntu and Bluetooth ubuntu and Bluetoothu/-KHEOPS•2 days agoubuntu and BluetoothBeen almost 2 hours since i am trying to connect my JBL vibe beam 2 with ubuntu and i cant believe it i just cant i already erase window OS from my computer LMAO. i don't get it why cant they just take the same software from phone and plug it in ubuntu?
Can this be fix or is this just a Linux thing? Can this be fix or is this just a Linux thing?u/BullfrogAdditional80•10 days agoCan this be fix or is this just a Linux thing?
PSA: WiFi "Missing" or "Disappeared" after Dual-Booting Windows 11 and Ubuntu? Easy Fix for Intel Tiger Lake PCH CNVi PSA: WiFi "Missing" or "Disappeared" after Dual-Booting Windows 11 and Ubuntu? Easy Fix for Intel Tiger Lake PCH CNViu/Hour-Taro1542•11 days agoPSA: WiFi "Missing" or "Disappeared" after Dual-Booting Windows 11 and Ubuntu? Easy Fix for Intel Tiger Lake PCH CNViTL;DR:WiFi gone after switching from Windows to Ubuntu? Plug in an Ethernet cable for 30 seconds. It "wakes up" the hardware. Unplug and you’re back online.The Problem:You’re dual-booting Windows 11 and Ubuntu Linux (24.04+). You shut down Windows, boot into Ubuntu, and your WiFi is completely gone—no networks, "Hardware Disabled," or "No WiFi Adapter Found."This is a common hardware state issue withIntel Tiger Lake PCH CNViadapters. Windows often leaves the card in a low-power "limbo" state that the Linux kernel can't properly reset on its own.The 30-Second "Jumpstart" Fix:If you're stuck with no wireless and don't want to dive into complex terminal commands or BIOS tweaks, try this:Boot into Ubuntu(where WiFi is currently broken).Plug in an Ethernet cable(use a USB-C dongle if your laptop doesn't have a port).Wait ~30 seconds.Once the LAN connection establishes, NetworkManager usually "wakes up" the WiFi card automatically.Unplug and go.Your WiFi should now stay active for the rest of your session.Pro Tip:If it doesn’t wake up immediately, leave the Ethernet plugged in andRestartUbuntu. Having an active carrier signal during the boot sequence often forces the kernel to properly initialize the network stack.How to check if you have this hardware:To see if your WiFi card matches this specific dual-boot issue, open your terminal (Ctrl+Alt+T) and run:lspci | grep -i networkIf your output looks like this, the fix is for you:00:14.3 Network controller: Intel Corporation Tiger Lake PCH CNVi WiFi (rev 11)Why this works:When you dual-boot between Windows and Linux, Windows power management doesn't always "release" the hardware properly. Plugging in Ethernet forces a full re-initialization of the NetworkManager stack, which usually snaps the WiFi card back to life.Norfkill, no driver reinstalls—just a simple hardware "nudge."
Help!!! Help!!!u/No_Ad_5237•2 days agoHelp!!!
What made you to use Ubuntu? What made you to use Ubuntu?u/Big-Self310•2 days agoWhat made you to use Ubuntu?
the bluetooth problem with ubuntu the bluetooth problem with ubuntuu/Khod_Wara_2003•11 days agothe bluetooth problem with ubuntuHello guys ,I'm a beginner ubuntu user and I have bluetooth problem , the bluetooth doesn't work on my ubuntu machine , like I see the bluetooth icon , but when I want to activate it , it doesn't want , like I click on the activate button and it goes back at that time to the off side , I tried youtube videos and another ressources but doesn't work , someone can help me please
What is working at Canonical actually like? What is working at Canonical actually like?u/winewinewine69•11 days agoWhat is working at Canonical actually like?Hope this is appropriate to ask here, but has anyone worked for Canonical and could share about their experience there? I am VERY familiar with their interview process and I am past that point- just interested in the culture, learning opportunities, etc, as I consider if I should accept an offer. I haven't been able to find any recent answers to this question but would rather not blindly accept an offer.
Ubuntu installed but not showing in bios menu Ubuntu installed but not showing in bios menuu/RhinoceresRex•11 days agoUbuntu installed but not showing in bios menuAs the title says, I'm dualbooting windows and ubuntu on my laptop. I've booted through the usb and installed linux. I've made root, home, boot, swap partitions with the right recommended sizes. Ubuntu finished installing but grub menu isn't loading. I went to BIOS and ubuntu isn't even showing up. Only windows boot manager. I even tried reinstalling ubuntu but it still doesn't work. Secure boot is off. Laptop is on uefi. Anyone knows a fix ?Only windows is loading. No sign of ubuntu
Dear Ubuntu Dear Ubuntuu/Key-Cheesecake-7592•11 days agoDear UbuntuI really wish the os could multitaskBetter and stop freezing for 3 seconds..
Errors in clamscan Errors in clamscanu/lifeintel9•2 days agoErrors in clamscanI was wondering if it's bad that there's 1198 errors in the clamscan of my entire Linux drive that I did overnight.Which command is there specifically to look at the directory that caused an error?
Late-stage Canonical interview. What does the Hiring Lead focus on? Late-stage Canonical interview. What does the Hiring Lead focus on?u/Direct_Classic2484•3 days agoLate-stage Canonical interview. What does the Hiring Lead focus on?Hi everyone,I am in the late stage of the interview process at Canonical for a Product Manager role. I have already completed the product, engineering, customer, and behavioral rounds. My next interview is with the Hiring Lead.I wanted to hear from people who have interviewed at Canonical before:What is the main focus of the Hiring Lead interview?Is it more about product judgment and strategy, or do they still go deep into technical topics?Do they ask a lot about GTM, prioritization, trade-offs, and real decision making?Do they strongly challenge your point of view, or is it more about alignment and fit?I am not looking for confidential details. Just trying to understand the general themes so I can prepare in the right way.Thanks a lot.
PSA: WiFi "Missing" or "Disappeared" after Dual-Booting Windows 11 and Ubuntu? Easy Fix for Intel Tiger Lake PCH CNVi PSA: WiFi "Missing" or "Disappeared" after Dual-Booting Windows 11 and Ubuntu? Easy Fix for Intel Tiger Lake PCH CNViu/Hour-Taro1542•11 days agoPSA: WiFi "Missing" or "Disappeared" after Dual-Booting Windows 11 and Ubuntu? Easy Fix for Intel Tiger Lake PCH CNViTL;DR:WiFi gone after switching from Windows to Ubuntu? Plug in an Ethernet cable for 30 seconds. It "wakes up" the hardware. Unplug and you’re back online.---The Problem:You’re dual-booting Windows 11 and Ubuntu Linux (24.04+). You shut down Windows, boot into Ubuntu, and your WiFi is completely gone—no networks, "Hardware Disabled," or "No WiFi Adapter Found."This is a common hardware state issue withIntel Tiger Lake PCH CNViadapters. Windows often leaves the card in a low-power "limbo" state that the Linux kernel can't properly reset on its own.The 30-Second "Jumpstart" Fix:If you're stuck with no wireless and don't want to dive into complex terminal commands or BIOS tweaks, try this:Boot into Ubuntu(where WiFi is currently broken).Plug in an Ethernet cable(use a USB-C dongle if your laptop doesn't have a port).Wait ~30 seconds.Once the LAN connection establishes, NetworkManager usually "wakes up" the WiFi card automatically.Unplug and go.Your WiFi should now stay active for the rest of your session.Pro Tip:If it doesn’t wake up immediately, leave the Ethernet plugged in andRestartUbuntu. Having an active carrier signal during the boot sequence often forces the kernel to properly initialize the network stack.How to check if you have this hardware:To see if your WiFi card matches this specific dual-boot issue, open your terminal (Ctrl+Alt+T) and run:lspci | grep -i networkIf your output looks like this, the fix is for you:00:14.3 Network controller: Intel Corporation Tiger Lake PCH CNVi WiFi (rev 11)Why this works:When you dual-boot between Windows and Linux, Windows power management doesn't always "release" the hardware properly. Plugging in Ethernet forces a full re-initialization of the NetworkManager stack, which usually snaps the WiFi card back to life.Norfkill, no driver reinstalls—just a simple hardware "nudge."
how do i report to whoever is responsible for updates? (kernel panic for the past 2 weeks or so) how do i report to whoever is responsible for updates? (kernel panic for the past 2 weeks or so)u/Worldly_Study6635•3 days agohow do i report to whoever is responsible for updates? (kernel panic for the past 2 weeks or so)Gey huys, so... some time ago my ubuntu (24.04.3 LTS ) started showing me kernel panic screen which rendered my pc use obsolete...Eventually, after  an eternity, thinking my life is destroyed,  I figured out how to bypass the problem (use the old kernel of 6.14) but seeing how this 6.17 malfunction is going on for some time i thought it will be fixed like the next day or so... It didnt.I assume it is so because they are not even aware of the problem and I have no idea how to report it.I have a strong fear that they will release a new kernel which will not work and the old one will become the 6.17 which would also not work (the 6.14 at the moment is finicky, I had to spend an hour today with constant restarts for it to work), and thus my life would be over... So I would very much want them to be aware of the problem that happens outside of the OS confines.thx in advance you huys.
Help with SSH Help with SSHu/deegee457•11 days agoHelp with SSHEDIT: problem solved - although I’m unsure how, I turned ON the firewall and allowed SSH and it worked…not sure why it didn’t work with it off but I won’t complain!Thanks for all commentsHi guys - I’ve just set up a new Ubuntu serverI’m having issues ssh ing into the server, i can’t even ping it.When I ip a it shows as having the IP 192.168.4.156 but when I try to ssh to this or ping this I get connection timed outFrom the server I can ping my other machinesOpen ssh is up and running properlyI’m abit stuck!Any ideas?
Asus TUF F16 RTX3050 Asus TUF F16 RTX3050u/Sleepy_boya•11 days agoAsus TUF F16 RTX3050Hello, i just bought this new laptop but i dont know if it is a good idea to change from windows 11 to ubuntu + gnome, im new to this and i hate windows 11 and its updates. I recently saw ubuntu + gnome desktops and they are beautifull but i dont know if my pc will work well if i change to ubuntu. (Srry for the bad english, it is not my first lenguage).i would appreciate any tips or personal experiences
New to Ubuntu New to Ubuntuu/Harsh_2907•12 days agoNew to UbuntuHello, i am window User and thinking of dual booting ubuntu. Any cool ideas for setting up ubuntu. I am a software engineer
Has snaps gotten better? Has snaps gotten better?u/Vallista•9 days agoHas snaps gotten better?
Problems with the font and ligatures Problems with the font and ligaturesu/Bu-Foon•11 days agoProblems with the font and ligaturesHello everyoneI'm having a pretty frustrating problem with JetBrainsMono Nord Font. The ligatures don't activate in VSCode nor in Nvim, the VSCode version is the Microsoft one.I downloaded it from Nerd Font git - With Ligatures since I know there's another one that says "No ligatures"In VSCode and Nvim the font does change but the ligatures don't activatethe fonts are in the folder ~/.local/share/fonts
Can't switch from 144hz to 60hz with RTX 3060 Can't switch from 144hz to 60hz with RTX 3060u/No_Kiwi_8192•11 days agoCan't switch from 144hz to 60hz with RTX 3060I'm running Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTS on an Intel Core i3-12100 and an RTX 3060 with Wayland protocol.I have 2 60Hz 1080p monitors connected to the 2 HDMI ports of the RTX 3060, and one widescreen 1440p 144Hz monitor connected over displayport.When I try to switch the display mode via the display settings from 144Hz to 60Hz, the screen flashes, switching periodically between red, green, blue, black, and white for about 15 or so seconds, before reverting back to the original 144Hz mode.I've attempted to use xrandr to create, add, and set a custom profile. Setting the active profile failed without any errors, which I assume to be a Wayland / Nvidia incompatibility?Any help would be appreciated.
Weird RDP keyboard behaviour - 25.10 Weird RDP keyboard behaviour - 25.10u/cogiskart•6 days agoWeird RDP keyboard behaviour - 25.10Hello,I have a computer in my rack running 25.10 that I'm using for Jellyfin and some other selfhosting projects. I'm using Ubuntus built in RDP options to connect.Everything is smooth sailing except for one thing, the keyboard. The computer is set to a Swedish layout and when I connect a keyboard directly to the computer it works as intended. But when I connect over RDP everything goes kind of wack where 2 is 3, B is N etc.Obviously the scancode offset is wrong but I have so far found no working solution to the issue. The issue persists no matter the keyboard as well.Kind of stumped on this one and would appreciate some help if anyone has run in to the same issue.All the best!
How to play Windows games How to play Windows gamesu/Mountain_Hippo7575•3 days agoHow to play Windows gamesSince switching to Linux, I've realized that most games can't be played except in a specific way (Roblox, Fortnite, etc.). So I'd like to know how to install Roblox using special applications, but I can't find anything. Therefore, I would be grateful if anyone could take a little time to explain it to me.
Sort Sorted Items in Nautilis Sort Sorted Items in Nautilisu/RazeZa•12 days agoSort Sorted Items in NautilisIs there a way to sort sorted items in nautilus?As you can see from the image. I have sorted the files with Detailed Type but the name is still random(?). I want the names to be sorted alphabetically while also sorted by detailed type. Is there a way to do it?Sorted by Detailed Type first then the results are sorted by name. I think  it should be like this where the main sort is the type then followed sort by Name so its easier to search for files after the sort. Without it, those files even though "sorted" its still tedious to find files.Edit :Found the fix(?) i think. So first, you need to sort by Name (press the Name column) and then sort by Detailed Type. After that, you files will be sorted by Detailed Type THEN by Name.
Where would someone new to linux and Ubuntu go to get tech support? Is there a subreddit? Where would someone new to linux and Ubuntu go to get tech support? Is there a subreddit?u/KingPapaDaddy•11 days agoWhere would someone new to linux and Ubuntu go to get tech support? Is there a subreddit?
Ubuntu se queda congelado Ubuntu se queda congeladou/Kindly_Programmer362•11 days agoUbuntu se queda congeladoAyer quería comprobar si un SSD que tenía aún funcionaba, por lo que quite en el que tenía en mi computadora y puse el anterior. Luego de eso volví a poner el SSD que uso en mi computadora y la enciendo. Al momento de querer entrar a Ubuntu salía la pantalla de cargando y de ahí se quedaba en negro. Intente actualizar los drivers de vídeo, reinstalar Ubuntu y cambiar el GRUB por nosplash. La única manera de que pueda hacer algo es con el instalador en modo de gráficos seguros. Que puedo hacer? Siento que ya mate a mi computadora 😞
MediaTek MT7902 Wi-Fi not working on Ubuntu 24.04 – ASUS VivoBook Go 14 (E1404FA) MediaTek MT7902 Wi-Fi not working on Ubuntu 24.04 – ASUS VivoBook Go 14 (E1404FA)[deleted]•5 days agoMediaTek MT7902 Wi-Fi not working on Ubuntu 24.04 – ASUS VivoBook Go 14 (E1404FA)Hi everyone,I recently tried installing Ubuntu 24.04 LTS on my ASUS VivoBook Go 14 (E1404FA), and overall the system runs very smoothly. Performance is solid, AMD Ryzen 5 7520U works perfectly, and everything else seems fine.However, the internal Wi-Fi adapter (MediaTek MT7902) is not working.System Details: 🔸Laptop: ASUS VivoBook Go 14 (E1404FA) 🔸CPU: AMD Ryzen 5 7520U 🔸RAM: 16 GB 🔸Storage: 512 GB SSD 🔸Wi-Fi: MediaTek MT7902 🔸Ubuntu Version: 24.04 LTS😔Issue: 🚫 The Wi-Fi adapter appears in hardware listings. 🚫No working driver module is loaded. 🚫Network Manager does not show any wireless networks. 🚫Bluetooth behavior is inconsistent.USB tethering works, so the system itself is stable. The only blocker is the internal MT7902 Wi-Fi driver support.From what I understand, MT7902 does not yet have proper upstream Linux kernel support. I couldn’t find any stable driver solution.🙌Questions:❓❓ ➡️ Is there any ongoing work toward proper MT7902 support in upcoming kernels?➡️ Has anyone successfully managed to get it working with a custom driver?➡️ Would replacing the internal card with an Intel AX200/AX210 be the most practical solution?I’d really prefer to run Ubuntu as my primary OS, but the Wi-Fi limitation makes it difficult for daily use.Any guidance or updates would be appreciated.Thanks!
Failure to make thread 'KMS thread' realtime scheduled Failure to make thread 'KMS thread' realtime scheduledu/marc-kd•11 days agoFailure to make thread 'KMS thread' realtime scheduledRunning Ubuntu 24.04 on a Bosgame Ecolite mini-PC, all updates applied.When Firefox starts up, numerous messages of this form begin appearing in syslog:gnome-shell [93321] Failed to make thread 'KMS thread' realtime scheduled: GDBus.Error:org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.NameHasNoOwner: Name "org.freedesktop.RealtimeKit1" does not existWeb searches turn up only a handful of references to this error, all of which involved bug fixes that have since been incorporated.Here's a full series where it first turns up in syslog:2026-02-01T09:29:49.499526-06:00 MiniPC gnome-shell[93321]: Failed to make thread 'KMS thread' realtime scheduled: Message recipient disconnected from message bus without replying 2026-02-01T09:29:57.870019-06:00 MiniPC kernel: audit: type=1107 audit(1769959797.868:183): pid=924 uid=102 auid=4294967295 ses=4294967295 subj=unconfined msg='apparmor="DENIED" operation="dbus_method_call"  bus="system" path="/org/freedesktop/RealtimeKit1" interface="org.freedesktop.DBus.Properties" member="Get" mask="send" name="org.freedesktop.RealtimeKit1" pid=134810 label="snap.firefox.firefox" 2026-02-01T09:29:57.870034-06:00 MiniPC kernel:  exe="/usr/bin/dbus-daemon" sauid=102 hostname=? addr=? terminal=?' 2026-02-01T09:29:59.561466-06:00 MiniPC gnome-shell[93321]: Failed to make thread 'KMS thread' realtime scheduled: GDBus.Error:org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.NameHasNoOwner: Name "org.freedesktop.RealtimeKit1" does not exist 2026-02-01T09:30:00.512017-06:00 MiniPC gnome-shell[93321]: Failed to make thread 'KMS thread' realtime scheduled: GDBus.Error:org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.NameHasNoOwner: Name "org.freedesktop.RealtimeKit1" does not exist 2026-02-01T09:30:01.225646-06:00 MiniPC CRON[134866]: (root) CMD ([ -x /etc/init.d/anacron ] && if [ ! -d /run/systemd/system ]; then /usr/sbin/invoke-rc.d anacron start >/dev/null; fi) 2026-02-01T09:30:10.594545-06:00 MiniPC gnome-shell[93321]: Failed to make thread 'KMS thread' realtime scheduled: GDBus.Error:org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.NameHasNoOwner: Name "org.freedesktop.RealtimeKit1" does not exist 2026-02-01T09:30:33.611440-06:00 MiniPC gnome-shell[93321]: message repeated 5 times: [ Failed to make thread 'KMS thread' realtime scheduled: GDBus.Error:org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.NameHasNoOwner: Name "org.freedesktop.RealtimeKit1" does not exist]I dunno, maybe something to do with that apparmor DENIED message?Maybe it's nothing, but I'm also dealing with some memory leak issues, and cleaning up the log and unnecessary errors can't hurt.
Newbie Question. All in one list for all apps/programs downloaded/installed? Newbie Question. All in one list for all apps/programs downloaded/installed?u/pinoy_biker•4 days agoNewbie Question. All in one list for all apps/programs downloaded/installed?Hi there. I just installed ubuntu 24 yesterday, and im excited to stick around with it.I happened to install some quality life apps and programs, i got some using terminal apt, some downloaded from web, some downloaded from ubuntu app store. Some are also in gnome extension.It seems to me that not all apps or programs are listed in the manage section of the appstore. Is there a place or a trick where i can see everything i downloaded from any source? Thanks.
I failed. I failed.u/its-MAGNETIC•3 days agoI failed.
Ubuntu desktop Ubuntu desktopu/Leather-Database-198•1 mo. agoUbuntu desktopHey, I recently downloaded Ubuntu and everything is fine and very good, but I see many people saying that Ubuntu is the worst distro of all, full of bloatware, etc.I just wanted to ask if Ubuntu is really a good choice and if it's as awful as some people say.
Ubuntu 24.04 system appears to need a network connection to boot? Ubuntu 24.04 system appears to need a network connection to boot?u/Conscious-Ball8373•3 days agoUbuntu 24.04 system appears to need a network connection to boot?I haven't tested this as fully as I'd like, but I think this is what's happening.I have a Raspberry Pi running Ubuntu 24.04 off its SD card.  On Saturday, there was an abrupt site-wide power outage and then the whole site was powered back on at the same time.  When I looked at the Pi on Monday, it was showing the red failure LED and was not contactable across the (wired) Ethernet.  Power-cycling the Pi brought it back online.  This has happened a few times and I think each time it is after power-cycling.The Pi is connected to a Cisco switch that, between its boot time and the STP delay, is pretty slow to bring up its network ports after power-on.  For at least some of this time, potential for quite a lot of it, a device connected to the switch will see a carrier but be unable to contact anything.  It looks like the Pi goes into a failed state if it doesn't have a working network connection on boot.  There is an identical Raspberry Pi with a very similar configuration connected to the same switch which has the same problem.Is there a good way to either:Bring the system up on boot without a network connection such that it will begin to use the network connection when it is available, orDefer boot indefinitely until a network connection is available?
OBS studio snapd installation does not work and shows a black screen with NO cursor. Please help. OBS studio snapd installation does not work and shows a black screen with NO cursor. Please help.u/The_Tefestation_6690•12 days agoOBS studio snapd installation does not work and shows a black screen with NO cursor. Please help.
is switching from windows 11 to ubuntu ok for someone who has no prior experience with linux is switching from windows 11 to ubuntu ok for someone who has no prior experience with linuxu/Good-Discussion-2043•27 days agois switching from windows 11 to ubuntu ok for someone who has no prior experience with linuxi just hate windows 11, accidentally upgraded from 10. it just reinstalls bloatware and copilot every update and is annoying and pushes microsoft account and onedrive. or should i just reinstall windows 10? will that be an issue bc windows doesnt support it anymore?Edit: i mostly use my pc for gaming, web browsing and sometimes blender
God? God?u/kerneldesign•14 days agoGod?
Configure all keys of "ThinkPad TrackPoint Keyboard II" on Ubuntu Configure all keys of "ThinkPad TrackPoint Keyboard II" on Ubuntuu/Louis-Romain•12 days agoConfigure all keys of "ThinkPad TrackPoint Keyboard II" on UbuntuConfigure all keys of "ThinkPad TrackPoint Keyboard II" on Ubuntur/thinkpad•12 days agoConfigure all keys of "ThinkPad TrackPoint Keyboard II" on UbuntuHi everyoneI am using the great external keyboard "ThinkPad TrackPoint Keyboard II" (AZERTY layout) with Ubuntu. On recent versions the keyboard is quite well recognized. But I would like every key to work. For example the Fn functions work : Fn+F1 mute, Fn+F2 volume down, etc. But some basic keys don't work like for example :- next to backspace, on the right, the key with - and _ displays "=" when pressed.- the key !8, when pressed displays "_" instead of "!"- the key "+=~" on the lower right, displays "!"- and several others.Do you know how to configure the keyboard properly on a recent Ubuntu 24.04?Do you know how to configure the keyboard properly on an old Ubuntu 16.04?Thank you1upvote·3comments
love so much my setup love so much my setupu/SingleParty4726•25 days agolove so much my setup
Need help to connect 2 external monitor with ubuntu via only 1 HDMI port and 1 USB-A (3.0) port Need help to connect 2 external monitor with ubuntu via only 1 HDMI port and 1 USB-A (3.0) portu/Arr_Rafi•12 days agoNeed help to connect 2 external monitor with ubuntu via only 1 HDMI port and 1 USB-A (3.0) portHey! My current setup is MSI Modern 14 laptop with 1 HP monitor (connected via the only HDMI port of my laptop). But right now, I badly need 2 monitor setup (don't count laptop screen please). My laptop has 1 HDMI port (currently occupied by my HP monitor), and 2 USB-A (3.0) port. Is there any way to connect my second monitor via the USB-A (3.0) port? or any HDMI dock that can help me to use 2 monitor? I want to extend the monitor, not mirror!Badly need help! Thanks in Advance!
Why is Plasma missing borders on applications? Why is Plasma missing borders on applications?u/JeansenVaars•7 days agoWhy is Plasma missing borders on applications?Why is Plasma missing borders on applications?r/kde•7 days agoWhy is Plasma missing borders on applications?Hello,I decided to make this post today but it's been a while since "I am noticing". Some applications like Firefox, VSCode, and Discord are missing their window borders. I thought it was a "Snap" thing (I am on Ubuntu non-LTS) but Spotify and SimpleNote are on Snap and it does have.Honestly, it is just hard to determine where a Window ends and another starts. I am a floating-windows person :)13upvotes·9comments
amdgpu amdgpuu/back4retro•3 days agoamdgpuamdgpur/pop_os•3 days agoamdgpuDuring apt update, I get the following error :Setting up amdgpu-dkms (1:6.16.6.30200100-2255209.24.04) ... Removing old amdgpu-6.16.6-2255209.24.04 DKMS files... Module amdgpu-6.16.6-2255209.24.04 for kernel 6.17.9-76061709-generic (x86_64). Before uninstall, this module version was ACTIVE on this kernel.  amdgpu.ko.zst:  - Uninstallation    - Deleting from: /lib/modules/6.17.9-76061709-generic/updates/dkms/  - Original module    - No original module was found for this module on this kernel.    - Use the dkms install command to reinstall any previous module version.  amdttm.ko.zst:  - Uninstallation    - Deleting from: /lib/modules/6.17.9-76061709-generic/updates/dkms/  - Original module    - No original module was found for this module on this kernel.    - Use the dkms install command to reinstall any previous module version.  amdkcl.ko.zst:  - Uninstallation    - Deleting from: /lib/modules/6.17.9-76061709-generic/updates/dkms/  - Original module    - No original module was found for this module on this kernel.    - Use the dkms install command to reinstall any previous module version.  amd-sched.ko.zst:  - Uninstallation    - Deleting from: /lib/modules/6.17.9-76061709-generic/updates/dkms/  - Original module    - No original module was found for this module on this kernel.    - Use the dkms install command to reinstall any previous module version.  amddrm_ttm_helper.ko.zst:  - Uninstallation    - Deleting from: /lib/modules/6.17.9-76061709-generic/updates/dkms/  - Original module    - No original module was found for this module on this kernel.    - Use the dkms install command to reinstall any previous module version.  amddrm_buddy.ko.zst:  - Uninstallation    - Deleting from: /lib/modules/6.17.9-76061709-generic/updates/dkms/  - Original module    - No original module was found for this module on this kernel.    - Use the dkms install command to reinstall any previous module version.  amddrm_exec.ko.zst:  - Uninstallation    - Deleting from: /lib/modules/6.17.9-76061709-generic/updates/dkms/  - Original module    - No original module was found for this module on this kernel.    - Use the dkms install command to reinstall any previous module version.  amdxcp.ko.zst:  - Uninstallation    - Deleting from: /lib/modules/6.17.9-76061709-generic/updates/dkms/  - Original module    - No original module was found for this module on this kernel.    - Use the dkms install command to reinstall any previous module version. depmod... Deleting module amdgpu-6.16.6-2255209.24.04 completely from the DKMS tree. Loading new amdgpu-6.16.6-2255209.24.04 DKMS files... Building for 6.17.9-76061709-generic 6.18.7-76061807-generic Building for architecture x86_64 Building initial module for 6.17.9-76061709-generic Done. Forcing installation of amdgpu  amdgpu.ko.zst: Running module version sanity check.  - Original module  - Installation    - Installing to /lib/modules/6.17.9-76061709-generic/updates/dkms/  amdttm.ko.zst: Running module version sanity check.  - Original module  - Installation    - Installing to /lib/modules/6.17.9-76061709-generic/updates/dkms/  amdkcl.ko.zst: Running module version sanity check.  - Original module  - Installation    - Installing to /lib/modules/6.17.9-76061709-generic/updates/dkms/  amd-sched.ko.zst: Running module version sanity check.  - Original module  - Installation    - Installing to /lib/modules/6.17.9-76061709-generic/updates/dkms/  amddrm_ttm_helper.ko.zst: Running module version sanity check.  - Original module  - Installation    - Installing to /lib/modules/6.17.9-76061709-generic/updates/dkms/  amddrm_buddy.ko.zst: Running module version sanity check.  - Original module  - Installation    - Installing to /lib/modules/6.17.9-76061709-generic/updates/dkms/  amddrm_exec.ko.zst: Running module version sanity check.  - Original module  - Installation    - Installing to /lib/modules/6.17.9-76061709-generic/updates/dkms/  amdxcp.ko.zst: Running module version sanity check.  - Original module  - Installation    - Installing to /lib/modules/6.17.9-76061709-generic/updates/dkms/ depmod... Building initial module for 6.18.7-76061807-generic ERROR (dkms apport): kernel package linux-headers-6.18.7-76061807-generic is not supported Error! Bad return status for module build on kernel: 6.18.7-76061807-generic (x86_64) Consult /var/lib/dkms/amdgpu/6.16.6-2255209.24.04/build/make.log for more information. dpkg: error processing package amdgpu-dkms (--configure):  installed amdgpu-dkms package post-installation script subprocess returned error exit status 10 Errors were encountered while processing:  amdgpu-dkms E: Sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (1)Some of the contents of /var/lib/dkms/amdgpu/6.16.6-2255209.24.04/build/make.log :amd/amdkcl/kcl_device_cgroup.c:29:6: warning: no previous prototype for ‘amdkcl_dev_cgroup_init’ [-Wmissing-prototypes]    29 | void amdkcl_dev_cgroup_init(void)       |      ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   CC [M]  amd/amdkcl/kcl_drm_suballoc.o   CC [M]  amd/amdkcl/kcl_drm_dp_helper.o   CC [M]  amd/amdkcl/kcl_drm_prime.o   CC [M]  amd/amdkcl/kcl_drm_vblank.o   CC [M]  amd/amdkcl/kcl_drm_dp_mst_topology.o amd/amdkcl/kcl_workqueue.c:40:6: warning: no previous prototype for ‘amdkcl_workqueue_init’ [-Wmissing-prototypes]    40 | void amdkcl_workqueue_init(void)       |      ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   CC [M]  amd/amdkcl/kcl_drm_syncobj.o   CC [M]  amd/amdkcl/kcl_drm_client_event.o amd/amdkcl/kcl_numa.c:15:6: warning: no previous prototype for ‘amdkcl_numa_init’ [-Wmissing-prototypes]    15 | void amdkcl_numa_init(void)       |      ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   CC [M]  amd/amdkcl/kcl_scatterlist.o   CC [M]  amd/amdkcl/kcl_kfifo.o   CC [M]  amd/amdkcl/kcl_cec_adap.o   CC [M]  amd/amdkcl/kcl_drm_hdcp.o   CC [M]  amd/amdkcl/kcl_timeconv.o   CC [M]  amd/amdkcl/kcl_drm_drv.o   CC [M]  amd/amdkcl/kcl_dma_fence_array.o   CC [M]  amd/amdkcl/kcl_dma_fence_unwrap.o   CC [M]  amd/amdkcl/kcl_drm_probe_helper.o   CC [M]  amd/amdkcl/kcl_i2c_core_base.o   CC [M]  amd/amdkcl/kcl_debugfs_inode.o   CC [M]  amd/amdkcl/kcl_debugfs_file.o   CC [M]  amd/amdkcl/kcl_sysfs_emit.o amd/amdkcl/kcl_drm_prime.c:22:6: warning: no previous prototype for ‘amdkcl_prime_init’ [-Wmissing-prototypes]    22 | void amdkcl_prime_init(void)       |      ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   CC [M]  amd/amdkcl/kcl_wbrf.o   LD [M]  amd/amdkcl/amdkcl.o make[3]: *** [/usr/src/linux-headers-6.18.7-76061807-generic/Makefile:2017: .] Error 2 make[2]: *** [/usr/src/linux-headers-6.18.7-76061807-generic/Makefile:248: __sub-make] Error 2 make[2]: Leaving directory '/var/lib/dkms/amdgpu/6.16.6-2255209.24.04/build' make[1]: *** [Makefile:248: __sub-make] Error 2 make[1]: Leaving directory '/usr/src/linux-headers-6.18.7-76061807-generic' make: *** [Makefile:54: modules] Error 2I believe that I installed amdgpu manually at one time, but can't remember on the top of my head what I did. Have anyone else run into a similar issue? And is there a way to fix this without breaking my system?3upvotes·3comments
Wayland vs Xorg Wayland vs Xorgu/Fit-Interview8348•3 days agoWayland vs XorgI am confuse between these two. I started to install some extension, but I saw some things work better on wayland and some on xorg . So someone help me to use conky ?
Can an Android tablet be used as a second monitor for Ubuntu (laptop → tablet)? Can an Android tablet be used as a second monitor for Ubuntu (laptop → tablet)?u/devops_0309•5 days agoCan an Android tablet be used as a second monitor for Ubuntu (laptop → tablet)?I’m using Ubuntu 26 (GNOME) on a laptop and a Redmi Pad Pro (Android). My tablet connects to Ubuntu via USB and Wi-Fi, and USB debugging works. What I want is the Ubuntu desktop to be displayed on the tablet (laptop → tablet), ideally as an extended display, not mirroring the tablet on the laptop. Is there any native or reliable solution on Linux, or is this fundamentally unsupported due to Miracast / Android limitations? If not natively possible, what is the best practical workaround (Deskreen, VNC, virtual display, etc.)?
Log in with my face Log in with my faceu/Lasardine67•12 days agoLog in with my faceHi everyone, I would like to know if it is possible to open an Ubuntu session with face recognition like on Windows (Windows Hello), I am used to using it because it is convenient and my PC is compatible with Windows Hello.
Bypassing T-Mobile CGNAT: A Guide to Native PBR Split-Tunneling Bypassing T-Mobile CGNAT: A Guide to Native PBR Split-Tunnelingu/mediacenterkodi84•3 days agoBypassing T-Mobile CGNAT: A Guide to Native PBR Split-TunnelingBypassing T-Mobile CGNAT: A Guide to Native PBR Split-Tunnelingr/selfhosted•3 days agoBypassing T-Mobile CGNAT: A Guide to Native PBR Split-TunnelingJust thought I'd share my experience while switching from Spectrum internet to T-Mobile Home Internet for Plex Remote streaming. Please note I use Ubuntu 24.04.03 but this template should work for any linux distro.If you're on T-Mobile Home Internet, you already know the deal:CGNAT is a brick wall for Plex remote access.The common "fixes" usually involve Cloudflare Zero Trust (which is technically a ToS violation for video streaming) or bloated "one-click" overlays that add unnecessary latency.I decided to stop messing with workarounds and implemented akernel-level PBR (Policy-Based Routing)setup to handle the CGNAT bypass natively.The Strategy: Port Forwarding via WireGuardSince T-Mobile blocks all unsolicited inbound traffic, you need an external "front door." I’m usingAirVPNspecifically because they still support remote port forwarding. By using them as an exit node, I get a reachable public IP and an open port (32400) that actually listens for my Plex clients.The Execution: Surgical Split-TunnelingI’m not running a full-system VPN. I usedIdentity-Based Routingto ensure the VPN only touches what it needs to. This is handled via the Linux kernel'sip rulesystem:Remote Access:Only traffic generated by the Plex user (UID 999) is forced through the WireGuard tunnel. To the outside world, my server is at the VPN endpoint.Local Performance:I implemented a high-priority LAN exception. This ensures my local TVs talk directly to the server over my4Gbps bonded NICs(4x Intel 1Gbps) rather than looping through a tunnel.Zero Leakage:By binding the routing to the UID, I don't have to worry about port conflicts or IP changes breaking the split.Technical Performance & "Real World" ResultsI dumped Spectrum ($140/mo for 35Mbps up) for T-Mobile ($45/mo). While the cost is lower, the networking is a headache unless you tune it.The Speeds:On a 5G UC tower, I’m pulling120Mbps upload(dipping to 80Mbps during peak).Hardware:Running an i7-13700K. The UHD 770 handles 4K HDR tone mapping natively, and the 4-port Intel bond handles the local LAN overhead while the tunnel handles the remote streams.The "CGNAT Slayer" Config TemplateIf you want to replicate this on Ubuntu/Debian, here is the generic logic for your/etc/wireguard/wg0.conf.[Interface]  Address = 10.x.x.x/32  PrivateKey = <YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY>  MTU = 1280 # CRITICAL: 5G headers are fat. 1500 MTU will cause fragmentation/stuttering.  Table = 100   # Rule 1: LAN EXCEPTION (Priority 32764)  # IMPORTANT: Update '192.168.12.0/24' to match your actual local LAN subnet! # Keeps local traffic on your physical bond/NIC. Adjust subnet as needed. PostUp = ip rule add to 192.168.12.0/24 priority 32764 lookup main  PostDown = ip rule del to 192.168.12.0/24 priority 32764 lookup main   # Rule 2: UID ENFORCEMENT (Priority 32765)  # Forces ONLY the Plex user into the tunnel. Find UID with: id -u plex  # IMPORTANT: Find your UID by running 'id -u plex' (or your specific Plex user). # Replace '999-999' with your actual UID (e.g., 1001-1001). PostUp = ip rule add uidrange 999-999 priority 32765 table 100 v PostDown = ip rule del uidrange 999-999 priority 32765 table 100   [Peer]  PublicKey = <VPN_SERVER_PUBLIC_KEY>  Endpoint = vpn.server.address.com:1637  AllowedIPs = 0.0.0.0/0  PersistentKeepalive = 25 # Keeps the NAT hole open; T-Mobile will drop the state otherwise.Why this beats the other "Fixes":Vs. Cloudflare Zero Trust:Cloudflare’s ToS (Section 2.8) specifically prohibits using their free tunnels for disproportionate amounts of video streaming. Using them for Plex is a ticking time bomb for an account ban. My setup is 100% compliant with standard networking protocols.Vs. Plex Relay:Relays are "user-space" solutions that often cap your bitrate at 2Mbps and force 720p transcodes. This PBR setup allows forFull 4K HDR Direct Playbecause it uses a native kernel-level tunnel with zero bitrate restrictions.Vs. Full-System VPN:A standard VPN slows down your entire server and breaks local LAN access. My split-tunnel keeps your home network atfull speed(4Gbps in my case) while only sending remote Plex traffic to the Chicago exit node.Latency & Efficiency:WireGuard at the kernel level is significantly more efficient than Docker-based agents or third-party overlays, ensuring your metadata loads fast and your streams start instantly.If you’re stuck behind CGNAT and want to get a native split-tunnel running to stop overpaying for cable, ask away. Happy to help you get the routing table sorted.15upvotes·23comments
I created a way to use Windows apps (including MS Office 365) on Ubuntu I created a way to use Windows apps (including MS Office 365) on Ubuntuu/yhu420•22 days agoI created a way to use Windows apps (including MS Office 365) on UbuntuHi guys,I leveraged the power of Snap apps to run Windows (or any other OS for that matter) apps on Ubuntu. Here's a video example of me using Microsoft 365 on Ubuntu 24.04, in just two commands.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y82anWaxTxMIt is still in very early development so it might be a little buggy (specially with Wayland) but as a proof of concept, it works. If you run into issues, feel free to report them on Github.For the nerds out there who want to know how that works, it's heavily inspired by WinApps, meaning a guest OS is running behind an hypervisor and apps are streamed via RDP. The difference is that the VM configuration is delegated to app packages, so the end user doesn't really have to do anything technical to get things running.I'm posting this here to get the room temperature, yay or nay? Just interested in knowing if anyone finds this interesting :)Relevant links:https://github.com/PaulCombal/appack-clihttps://github.com/PaulCombal/appack-365
Is there a way to match? Is there a way to match?u/EGY-BATISTUTA•25 days agoIs there a way to match?
Can I recreate a virtual raid with just linux Can I recreate a virtual raid with just linuxu/Classic_Craft_1439•6 days agoCan I recreate a virtual raid with just linuxI have 2 SSDs from a laptop that were set up in RAID 0. I accidentally messed something up while trying to move the data to another PC. Luckily, using DMDE with a virtual RAID, I can see all the files. The problem is the free version only lets me recover 5 files at a time, and I don't want to pay $95 just to copy everything from my 4 TB ssd. I'm wondering if there's a way to recreate a virtual RAID 0 in Linux using the terminal so I can just mount it and access the files through the file manager?
slapped adwaita on 24.04. thoughts? slapped adwaita on 24.04. thoughts?u/SH0080•13 days agoslapped adwaita on 24.04. thoughts?
proot-distro install Ubuntu (not install allowed 64-bit Samsung Z Fold 7) any suggestion? proot-distro install Ubuntu (not install allowed 64-bit Samsung Z Fold 7) any suggestion?u/SpecterHarvey17•3 days agoproot-distro install Ubuntu (not install allowed 64-bit Samsung Z Fold 7) any suggestion?proot-distro install Ubuntu (not install allowed 64-bit Samsung Z Fold 7) any suggestion?u/SpecterHarvey17•3 days agoproot-distro install Ubuntu (not install allowed 64-bit Samsung Z Fold 7) any suggestion?1upvote·1comment
rdseed32 is broken. disabling the corresponding cpuid bit rdseed32 is broken. disabling the corresponding cpuid bitu/AMDDomination•5 days agordseed32 is broken. disabling the corresponding cpuid bitSo what's the deal with this?After a recent update (ubuntu 24 lts) I'm seeing this when the system starts up. It pops up on the screen then disappears after a couple seconds.Far as I can tell so far, everything is working as it always has. Only now I have this error.
Final Truth: Linux outperforms Windows 11 on RX 9060 XT (Strict 1:1 Benchmark) Final Truth: Linux outperforms Windows 11 on RX 9060 XT (Strict 1:1 Benchmark)u/Interesting-Net-6311•25 days agoFinal Truth: Linux outperforms Windows 11 on RX 9060 XT (Strict 1:1 Benchmark)
Ubuntu on HP Victus Ubuntu on HP Victusu/Numerous-Musician199•4 days agoUbuntu on HP VictusWell, here's the situation: a couple of days ago I decided to switch from Windows 11 to Linux, specifically Ubuntu. So far everything's been good—in fact, I've noticed the laptop boots up a bit faster. However, there's something that's been on my mind that I haven't been able to resolve. Perhaps someone here has experienced the same issue and can help me out.I'm a backend developer and I'm learning mobile app development, mainly with Expo RN and Android Studio. On Windows, I could use the simple Android Studio installer to create a virtual Android device for emulation and test applications for both Android Studio and Expo RN. The virtualization worked wonderfully—it really felt like having a physical phone, which I thought was great.Now, with Ubuntu, I haven't been able to replicate the same experience. The virtualization takes minutes to start (5, 10, even 15 minutes), and when it does boot up, the performance is extremely slow—so much so that it's unusable.Has anyone had the same problem? If so, how did you solve it? My HP Victus has: 1TB Samsung Evo SSD, 16GB RAM, Nvidia 3050 Ti graphics card, Intel Core i5 12th generation.I've already checked the Nvidia drivers and they're fine, because I tested a couple of games (Minecraft and The Sims 4) and both run super smoothly. The only problem is with the Android emulator. I repeat: I've already checked and the drivers are working properly, the system recognizes the graphics card, but for some reason the emulator doesn't.I hope you can help me.I have an intermediate level of English since it's not my primary language—sorry if there are any writing errors.Thanks
GTX 780 on Ubuntu 25.04 – any way to use GPU compute without downgrade? GTX 780 on Ubuntu 25.04 – any way to use GPU compute without downgrade?u/Low_Inspector7454•12 days agoGTX 780 on Ubuntu 25.04 – any way to use GPU compute without downgrade?GTX 780 on Ubuntu 25.04 – any way to use GPU compute without downgrade?r/linux4noobs•12 days agoGTX 780 on Ubuntu 25.04 – any way to use GPU compute without downgrade?GTX 780 on Ubuntu 25.04 – any way to use GPU compute without downgrade? (free only) Post: I’m running Ubuntu 25.04 (kernel 6.14) with an NVIDIA GTX 780 (Kepler). Problem: GTX 780 requires NVIDIA 470 legacy driver 470 doesn’t load on kernel 6.14 New drivers ignore Kepler nvidia-smi fails Constraints: ❌ No Ubuntu downgrade / reinstall ❌ No new GPU (budget = 0) ❌ No paid services Question: Is there any workaround (patched driver, DKMS hack, VM/container trick, etc.) to get GPU compute working on this setup, or is it truly impossible? Thanks.1upvote·5comments
Having trouble with elantech touchpad and nipple on x380 yoga and Ubuntu 24.04 LTS Having trouble with elantech touchpad and nipple on x380 yoga and Ubuntu 24.04 LTSu/ThinkPad214•12 days agoHaving trouble with elantech touchpad and nipple on x380 yoga and Ubuntu 24.04 LTSHaving trouble with elantech touchpad and nipple on x380 yoga and Ubuntu 24.04 LTSr/thinkpad•12 days agoHaving trouble with elantech touchpad and nipple on x380 yoga and Ubuntu 24.04 LTSHaving an issue with thinkpad x380 yoga track point and pad, help is appreciated.2upvotes
Remote Access Ubuntu Laptop via Android Phone Remote Access Ubuntu Laptop via Android Phoneu/infinitus_02•6 days agoRemote Access Ubuntu Laptop via Android PhoneI need a way to remotely access my laptop at home via my android phone just to continue some work on vscode. I want to be able to view and write on vscode via my phone. I tried using anydesk but it has some weird license problem that I don't want to get into. I just want to setup simple remote access.
GMan: A GTK# Man Page Viewer (X11/Linux) GMan: A GTK# Man Page Viewer (X11/Linux)u/Confident_Tar•5 days agoGMan: A GTK# Man Page Viewer (X11/Linux)
I'm new, using ubuntu in WSL2. I'm new, using ubuntu in WSL2.u/Zero_sleepying_002•12 days agoI'm new, using ubuntu in WSL2.Hello, I'm new to the world of linux, using ubuntu in WSL2, termial mode, should I use a vm or continue using wsl or load a gui like plasma in wsl2? Idk what to do, last night I was trying to use Google in terminal mode 😭 (duckduckgo worked) soo need more thing i should try.
Screen Edges cut off in Kubuntu 25.10 Screen Edges cut off in Kubuntu 25.10u/Demented-Cap-Murica•12 days agoScreen Edges cut off in Kubuntu 25.10Hi, I'm using Kubuntu 25.10 on an older PC (Haswell Intel CPU and GTX 1050 ti). The Kubuntu desktop extends beyond the edges of my display (shown in picture). I haven't found a solution yet from Google, so I figure I'd ask here. Here's what I've tried so far:Switched from Xorg drivers to proprietary tested nvidia 580 drivers.Tried looking in Nvidia X Server Settings for a way to adjust screen edges.Tried Using xrandr to change underscan of my monitorRebooting multiple times throughout the earlier steps.I didn't have the edges of my screen cut off while using an RX 550, so worst case I swap back to that card. Does anyone have any ideas for what I can try? Thanks!
Troubleshoot: Mercusys MA530 (2c4e:0115) Bluetooth not working on Kubuntu - Missing RTL8761BU firmware? Troubleshoot: Mercusys MA530 (2c4e:0115) Bluetooth not working on Kubuntu - Missing RTL8761BU firmware?u/JokaGaming2K10•6 days agoTroubleshoot: Mercusys MA530 (2c4e:0115) Bluetooth not working on Kubuntu - Missing RTL8761BU firmware?Hi everyone, I'm trying to get aMercusys MA530USB Bluetooth adapter working on Kubuntu.Hardware ID:2c4e:0115The Issue:The device is detected bylsusb, but it does not appear inbluetoothctl list. I tried manually adding the ID to thebtusbdriver using:echo "2c4e 0115" | sudo tee /sys/bus/usb/drivers/btusb/new_idSystem Info:OS:Kubuntu 24.04 LTSKernel:6.17.0-14-genericIt seems like a firmware mismatch for the RTL8761BU chip. Has anyone successfully mapped this specific Mercusys Vendor ID to the standard Realtek firmware files?Thanks and have a great day!
Static IP setup not working suddenly? Static IP setup not working suddenly?u/CuriousDivide2425•5 days agoStatic IP setup not working suddenly?Hello, I am having issue with static IP not working like it's supposed to on Ubuntu.There is 2 computers, Computer 1 and Computer 2. Computer 1 is connected to 1 side of ethernet cord, so I plug the other end into Computer 2. The ethernet is not connected to internet, it is just for LAN.So, I plug in ethernet into computer 2, which is running Ubuntu, and then I do these commands on Computer 2 to set its static IP address:sudo ifconfig enx34c8d6b10561 downsudo ip addr add 169.254.128.108/16 dev enx34c8d6b10561sudo ifconfig enx34c8d6b10561 up(enx34c8d6b10561is the identifier for the ethernet connection on Computer 2, and169.254.128.108/16is the static IP I chose for Computer 2 to have on the LAN network)I then runping 169.254.104.200, which is Computer 1's local IP address on the LAN network, to check if it works, and usually it does, but this time it did not. It gives me the outputicmp_seq=1 Destination Host Unreachable, with 100% packet loss. I do not know what happened to cause this to not work anymore.
What made you use Ubuntu? What made you use Ubuntu?u/Junior_Sink_5105•3 days agoWhat made you use Ubuntu?What made you use Windows 11?r/Windows11•3 days agoWhat made you use Windows 11?35comments
Just Want To Appreciate Ubuntu Just Want To Appreciate Ubuntuu/CodyakaLamer•14 days agoJust Want To Appreciate UbuntuHello all,I've started using Linux since 2012 with Ubuntu 12.04 and always loved Unity. When they announce Snaps I was excited for it, disappointed with the first LTS with Snaps launch & then later impressed Ubuntu finally fixed Snaps speed, and I was upset about Unity being discontinued and always hated (first first Gnome transition) & loved how Ubuntu looks todayUbuntu is the distro I go back and forth and never see the hate for it. Yeah it's not prefect but always love it.Yesterday showed why I prefer Ubuntu over other distros (note: not talking crap about Fedora I also like Fedora Gnome it's my second favorite). I was using Fedora and I use Tailscale to connect my Ubuntu home server. Went to SSH and refused to connect. I got route set up to use my home server IP address so I don't have to go back and forth remembering Tailscales IP and server IP. Fedora kept wanting to failed to connect to the SSH to the servers IP using Tailscale, thought it was my server acting up, tried SSH using my phone and it worked. Tried troubleshooting, using AI to walk me through everything, just kept running commands after commands, failing and failing. Remind you Tailscale is installed and setup on my Fedora laptop. Only way I can SSH is using Tailscale's IP. Also I'm connected to my works WiFi on my phone and laptopBoot into Ubuntu USB live environment, installed Tailscales, set up Tailscale same way I did with Fedora, and bam SSH works. Able to SSH using my home server IP route. It honestly just tells me to use what works (for me) and just keep using it.
RDP session (xrdp) on Ubuntu closes immediately after reconnecting after a few days RDP session (xrdp) on Ubuntu closes immediately after reconnecting after a few daysu/Desperate-Idea-1899•3 days agoRDP session (xrdp) on Ubuntu closes immediately after reconnecting after a few days1° I'm using windows (mstsc) to login at my ubuntu server, but when i disconnect from the server and after one or two days, the session just broke. I can log, but instantly get me off from the session, closing the window.Then, I need to connect physically and get down off the sessionI am using Windows Remote Desktop Connection (`mstsc`) to access my Ubuntu server. Everything works fine initially, but after leaving the session disconnected for one or two days, I encounter a persistent issue.When I try to log in again, the connection is established, but the window **closes instantly** right after authentication.The only way to fix this is to physically access the machine and kill the existing session manually. After that, I can log in normally again until the issue repeats a few days later.**Environment details:**- **Local OS:** Windows 11 (mstsc)- **Remote OS:** Ubuntu Server 24.04- **Desktop Environment:** GNOME (ubuntu-desktop)- **RDP Server:** xrdp with xvnc, i've tried xorg too.**What I've checked:**- Change from xorg to xvnc, disabling the xorg- I've tried to look xrdp-sesman too
No Ubuntu after all! No Ubuntu after all!u/Leather-Database-198•1 mo. agoNo Ubuntu after all!
Ubuntu after 9 years of Arch. Ubuntu after 9 years of Arch.u/franzkimono•21 days agoUbuntu after 9 years of Arch.Hi guys!I am an linux user since 2017, at 13 I tried Linux with arch. Painful lessons, many mistakes learnt and I come to love Linux overall. But I think i just don't care about bleeding edge anymore. I just want to play without issues, work as a call consultant (web-based no need for extra app support) and just don't care about anything. I never tried any distros, I just sticked with Arch. But I want to try Ubuntu for the first time as a new alternative for me as a experienced Arch use. I just don't care anymore about stuff I cared, like doing unixporn stuff etc. Do you think is it a good idea to give it a spin? Of course firstly in VM than we will see.
How a Computer Vision module turned me into a full-time Ubuntu user. How a Computer Vision module turned me into a full-time Ubuntu user.u/Yaggohl•11 days agoHow a Computer Vision module turned me into a full-time Ubuntu user.
My "DomBook" setup: switched from Win11 to Ubuntu 25.10: any advice? My "DomBook" setup: switched from Win11 to Ubuntu 25.10: any advice?u/This-Client6508•13 days agoMy "DomBook" setup: switched from Win11 to Ubuntu 25.10: any advice?
Destined-for-the-bin MacBook Pro early 2015 13" (A1502), saved. Destined-for-the-bin MacBook Pro early 2015 13" (A1502), saved.u/the6tester•11 days agoDestined-for-the-bin MacBook Pro early 2015 13" (A1502), saved.
"Failed to add entry for user username" When trying to create username and password for Samba. "Failed to add entry for user username" When trying to create username and password for Samba.u/Dependent-Amount-239•12 days ago"Failed to add entry for user username" When trying to create username and password for Samba.Im trying to set up Samba on ubuntu so I can share files between my windows computer and my Ubuntu computer, I followed the tutorial on the Ubuntu website exactly but when I tried to create a user name and password for the server using 'sudo smbpasswd -a username' I was able to set up a passwork but it said "Failed to add entry for user username" and I cant access the samba share file on either computer because it denies me access because I dont have the right credentials because I cant make a user name. Can anyone help with this?
can't install ubuntu 24.04.3 can't install ubuntu 24.04.3u/Slow_Zebra3804•6 days agocan't install ubuntu 24.04.3I know this looks initially like its been asked loads of times before but this really is unique. I've installed ubuntu a few times to my PC, ASUS PRO WS TRX50-SAGE WIFI with 9960x, 128 Gb ram and internal SSD's. I initially sucessfully installed Ubuntu to an external drive but started getting a "RSEED32 is broken" message on boot so tried to reinstall ubuntu from the installer usb stick and made the mistake of resetting my bios. Ever since I've not been able to install ubuntu again. I've got as far as " try and install" and got a blank screen and the PC rebooted after 1 minute, even tried safe mode and the same thing happened. I've had to switch CSM on as after resetting my BIOS it wouldnt recognise any USB stick on boot to BIOS. I've also had to switched boot device control to UEFI only. The secure boot state is Other OS and secure boot mode is set to custom. I haven't used secure boot management but there is 1 PK key, 3 KEK keys, 11 DB keys and 412 DBX keys. They only thing I haven't tried is clearing the secure boot keys. It will boot to windows if I set the windows boot manager but I can't get to boot into the ubuntu usb installer, Tried 3 different USB disks, reflashed each once at least 3 times and its driving me nuts so any help would be greatly appreciated.
Can't upgrade Ubuntu? Can't upgrade Ubuntu?u/Puzzled_Athlete_1253•3 days agoCan't upgrade Ubuntu?
How on earth do you fix this? How on earth do you fix this?u/Business-Push1215•12 days agoHow on earth do you fix this?I want to reinstall the modrinth app, but like usual, shit doesn't work. This has been the 10th attempt trying this, and I keep getting the error 'Idconfig failed, exit status 256'. Now the real bullshit is, when I researched a fix for this, I got an answer that seemed helpful, if my terminal wasn't bent over and screwed up the anus. Once i try to type my password, poof, away goes typing. Can someone explain why this always happens?
Ubuntu Corporate Question? Ubuntu Corporate Question?u/ravenrandomz•12 days agoUbuntu Corporate Question?I want to give the Ubuntu Community a chance regarding my recent concerns on its corporate shenanigans (ads in the terminal are insane and the other historical ) despite some really great features such as FDE + TPM out of the box.Is Ubuntu slowly going the ways of Windows with Canonical control of snaps/historical controversies? Or is this just fluff from other communities? Please elaborate if so, I will do what I can to help prevent the spread of misinformation.Attached below is the original wording of my questions.Background:This migration has been recently prompted by a recent installation Graphene OS after abandoning Samsung due to their locked bootloader + bloatware + uninstallable depressing news app (my phone was about to go into EOL, too). I am a firm believer in FOSS/GPL. I have been using Linux since 2020, starting at Fedora, moving to Ubuntu, but am now at an enpasse. I want something that allows me the security of Graphene (I understand that there are no one-to-one equivalents of Graphene in desktop Linux).Although, high-level security FDE can be seen as niche for the paranoid, the government, the corporate, or the "criminal", it has been clear in recent times that these features are very useful for the everyday citizen. I am very technical, but having something that is easy to install just makes things more efficient/I can encourage others to do the same. Arch is a no go (although I have installed it before). Even the level of boot security of Graphene OS/mobile in general, despite the possibility of lockouts and corporate abuse has become a desirable feature to prevent tampering.I chose Graphene OS to spite the data harvesting which harvests my life to train AI from my very humanity and steal my attention span. I have migrated to Librewolf (firefox AI/data collection), to Organic Maps, and more. Yeah, the mass surveillance resistance is a good pro.I dual boot with Windows. Although it is incapable of interpreting ext4 or btrfs (I think), I wouldn't put it behind Windows to try to scan Linux partitions for data. Maybe they don't, maybe they do. Maybe a virus could use windows to hijack the top Linux distro. Overall, the paranoi doesn't play into this as much as "better to have and not need than need and not have". To help me and whoever else in the future gain independence and focus, I'm going to do it myself so I can provide help. Anything to help empower everyday people is good given these times.The QuestionInitially, I was going to migrate to Ubuntu and do their full-disk-encryption with tpm, but someone mentioned how trash snap was. I fell down the rabbit hole of pervious Ubuntu Controversies. I have noticed that there were ads within the terminal, it just never crossed my mind. Even with their Message of the Day.Despite Ubuntu supporting convenient TPM + FDE update installation, these blips of "enshittification" are concerning. Even though Ubuntu might be governed "independently" and "meritocraticaly", the fact that there is a growing list of things to opt out of, which someone on reddit mentioned for the MOTD, reminded me of Windows as well. The amazon controversy was insane as well. If Ubuntu was truly independent from Canonical and has the spirit of FOSS, there should have been no way that the lead developers would have allowed such insanity by default. The apt adverts also have an obscure solution that had to be elicited from the bug patches.The Fedora Project, although heavily connected to Red Hat, seems to not have had as much controversy. I understand Red Had did violate the spirit of FOSS with the Cent OS drama, but Fedora is not Red Hat (from my understanding).I remember the "troubles" when btrfs and pipewire was pushed, but I heard that Fedora is more reliable these days. Although, getting TPM and FDE will require some manual configuration, I'm looking at switching to Fedora instead.Is Fedora worth it over Ubuntu?Is Ubuntu's "corporatisms" worth its features? (I don't want to have most of my workflow in Ubuntu, then be forced to migrate should it go towards the way of Windows, even a hand's length) - I don't want to have to opt out from 10-20 options every install/update/Is btrfs as reliable, stable, and reslient as ETX4 in 2026?(It's not a maker or breaker on Fedora since I can just set it to ext4 but if its okay, I'll just do the default). I am looking to do classic rsync-based backups.Clarification on excluded OSsAs stated, due to the desire for simplicity, Arch Linux is not a option for me. Neither is Mint or Debian as their interfaces are a bit old and primitive (in my opinion). It seems that Ubuntu and Fedora has the most up to date repositories.Potential Extra ConsiderationsOpenSUSE due to its native FDE.
welcome to Ubuntu welcome to Ubuntuu/skarphethin•3 days agowelcome to Ubuntu
Ubuntu 25.04 Reaches End of Life on January 15, 2026. Ubuntu 25.04 Reaches End of Life on January 15, 2026.u/ask2sk•1 mo. agoUbuntu 25.04 Reaches End of Life on January 15, 2026.Ubuntu 25.04 “Plucky Puffin” reaches End of Life on January 15, 2026. if you're still using 25.04, it is time to upgrade to the latest available Ubuntu version.
What is the reason ? What is the reason ?u/Silent_Echo_2005•11 days agoWhat is the reason ?
CPU Usage reaches 100% CPU Usage reaches 100%u/slickfred•3 days agoCPU Usage reaches 100%I have been running into issues in which the CPU usage reaches 100% and the computer bricks. It happens when running chrome, or using either CLion or VSCode. I've tried getting graphics card drivers and upgrading Ubuntu to the version seen below but I'm still having the same issue. I have checked my computer hardware against the minimum hardware requirements of the aforementioned programs and was wondering if anyone knew a possible solution.# System Details Report---## Report details- **Date generated:**                              2026-02-09 14:45:31## Hardware Information:- **Hardware Model:**                              HP HP Pavilion Gaming Laptop 15-ec1xxx- **Memory:**                                      8.0 GiB- **Processor:**                                   AMD Ryzen™ 5 4600H with Radeon™ Graphics × 12- **Graphics:**                                    AMD Radeon™ Graphics- **Graphics 1:**                                  AMD Radeon™ Graphics- **Disk Capacity:**                               2.3 TB## Software Information:- **Firmware Version:**                            F.28- **OS Name:**                                     Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTS- **OS Build:**                                    (null)- **OS Type:**                                     64-bit- **GNOME Version:**                               46- **Windowing System:**                            X11- **Kernel Version:**                              Linux 6.8.0-94-generic
anybody interested in 2026 Linux Kernel release cycles/ anybody interested in 2026 Linux Kernel release cycles/u/WerewolfIll4771•9 days agoanybody interested in 2026 Linux Kernel release cycles/
I need help Ubuntu won't startup I need help Ubuntu won't startupu/jonas8273•12 days agoI need help Ubuntu won't startuphttps://www.reddit.com/r/linux4noobs/comments/1qsp9ez/ubuntu_broken_when_startup/?share_id=njUqkb-OP4hX92KYDPNsI&utm_content=1&utm_medium=android_app&utm_name=androidcss&utm_source=share&utm_term=1
Am I cooked Am I cookedu/Hiimhappyman•20 days agoAm I cooked
What is this? Is this a log? I can't execute commands here like a terminal. What is this? Is this a log? I can't execute commands here like a terminal.u/Apostle_1882•23 days agoWhat is this? Is this a log? I can't execute commands here like a terminal.
Ubuntu with KDE? Ubuntu with KDE?u/Novel-Buddy-5294•12 days agoUbuntu with KDE?Hello guys I was thinking of using kde plasma on Ubuntu. So any guide or documentations related to it, then please do share.
Help troubleshooting why services were disabled after reboot on Ubuntu 24.04 VPN server Help troubleshooting why services were disabled after reboot on Ubuntu 24.04 VPN serveru/bdu-komrad•12 days agoHelp troubleshooting why services were disabled after reboot on Ubuntu 24.04 VPN serverThis just happened to me with my Ubuntu 24.04 VPS server.I logged into it , and it said "restart required".  Looking in the /var/run/reboot-required.pkgs file., it showed my kernel had updated 4 times since the last reboot, so I needed to reboot to load the new kernel.So I rebooted the system.I could not ssh into the server using the VPN IP address post reboot, but I could reach the various apps hosted on it ( bookstack, joplin, etc ) via the public IP address.I used the VPS local console to log in and sudo root. I found that both the ssh and wireguard services were stopped and disabled.I enabled and started both service , and I'm back to where I was before the reboot.One thing I changed before reboot was to use the match command to allow root login with key authentication from the VPN ip address. I don't see why this would cause services to be disabled, but I always look at any change before a problem occurs as changing things is usually what breaks things.I don't know if they were disabled but running ( is that possible? ) before the reboot.Is there a way to figure out  why ssh (ssh.service) and wireguard (wg-quick@wg0.service) were disabled?
Suddenly lost my displays! Suddenly lost my displays!u/BareBonesTek•7 days agoSuddenly lost my displays!Good morning Hive Mind!I am a recent convert to Linux desktop (another "I won't use Windoze 11"...) and settled on Ubuntu 25.10 (I'm new to desktop, but have used server quite a bit.)Anyway, I have 2 monitors connected to my NVidia graphics card. One is 4k, the other is 1020p. Both connected via HDMI.I try to keep my system as up to date as I am able. Everything has been going great and I'm loving it!Until this morning....Booted up my PC and only my 4k monitor is being recognized. Worse, than that, the resolution is 1024x768. I've looked at the settings and there are no other resolutions available. I've been googling around, but every post I can find is either very old, or doesn't address my specific problem.If I run xrandr, I get the following:Screen 0: minimum 16 x 16, current 1024 x 768, maximum 32767 x 32767None-1 connected primary 1024x768+0+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 270mm x 203mm1024x768      59.92*+800x600       59.86640x480       59.38320x240       59.29960x600       59.63928x580       59.88800x500       59.50768x480       59.90720x480       59.71640x400       59.95320x200       58.141024x576      59.90864x486       59.92720x400       59.27640x350       59.28I've tried updating my NVidia drivers, but sudo ubuntu-drivers autoinstall (which I found on one post via Google) returns Error: No such command 'autoinstall'.If I run ubuntu-drivers devices, I get the following:== /sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:01.0/0000:01:00.0 ==modalias : pci:v000010DEd00002504sv00001458sd00004074bc03sc00i00vendor   : NVIDIA Corporationmodel    : GA106 [GeForce RTX 3060 Lite Hash Rate]driver   : nvidia-driver-580-server - distro non-freedriver   : nvidia-driver-580-open - distro non-freedriver   : nvidia-driver-590-server-open - distro non-freedriver   : nvidia-driver-580 - distro non-freedriver   : nvidia-driver-590-server - distro non-freedriver   : nvidia-driver-590-open - distro non-free recommendeddriver   : nvidia-driver-580-server-open - distro non-freedriver   : nvidia-driver-590 - distro non-freedriver   : xserver-xorg-video-nouveau - distro free builtinIs this saying I need to pay for a new driver? It looks to me like the card isn't being recognized and it's defaulting to generic settings, but why would that suddenly happen? (The machine was fine yesterday!)I'm an experienced computer user, but a Linux Desktop NOOB and just don't know where to even start with troubleshooting.Can anyone see what's wrong from the above, or can offer some tips for next steps in troubleshooting?Apologies for the formatting, but it's hard to use Reddit at this resolution!TIAUpdate:Thank you to everyone who commented / read this. I ended up turning to ChatGPT (!) and got it working. It was a mis-match between an update kernel and a mix of NVidia drivers. It seems to be working again now! :-DPhew! That had me panicking!!!
I Made a Music Player for Linux I Made a Music Player for Linuxu/AcanthisittaLow5562•13 days agoI Made a Music Player for Linux
Installer instantly crashing in live environment on 24.04.3 LTS Installer instantly crashing in live environment on 24.04.3 LTSu/RagingTaco334•12 days agoInstaller instantly crashing in live environment on 24.04.3 LTSI've been wanting to try out Ubuntu on my laptop just to test drive it since I haven't touched Ubuntu in like 5 years, but attempting to even launch the installer in the live environment is met with an immediate crash. I've had no issues running Linux on this laptop (currently using Linux Mint 22.2 with no issues whatsoever) and the live environment seems to work well, it's literally just the installer. Sometimes I'll get farther past the first couple options, but it never moves past the "update the installer" page. I've made sure to update all Snaps beforehand and I'm connected to my home network. I've tried running it through Terminal to see errors, but I'm not sure what I'm looking for.Here's the terminal output:ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ snap run ubuntu-desktop-bootstrapGtk-Message: 21:27:40.060: Failed to load module "canberra-gtk-module"Gtk-Message: 21:27:40.080: Failed to load module "canberra-gtk-module"(ubuntu_bootstrap:14379): Gtk-WARNING **: 21:27:40.165: /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/gtk-3.0/3.0.0/immodules/im-ibus.so: undefined symbol: ibus_input_context_set_post_process_key_event(ubuntu_bootstrap:14379): Gtk-WARNING **: 21:27:40.165: Loading IM context type 'ibus' failedflutter: INFO ubuntu_bootstrap: Logging to /var/log/installer/ubuntu_bootstrap.logflutter: INFO flavor_provider: Using default flavor: UbuntuFlavor.ubuntuflutter: INFO subiquity_server: Waiting server up to 90 secondsflutter: INFO subiquity_server: ApplicationState.WAITINGflutter: INFO subiquity_client: Opening socket to Endpoint(/run/subiquity/socket )flutter: DEBUG desktop: Disabling automountingflutter: DEBUG subiquity_client: POST http://localhost/meta/client_variant?variant=%22desktop%22flutter: DEBUG telemetry: Writing report to /var/log/installer/telemetryflutter: DEBUG subiquity_client: ==> setVariant(Variant.DESKTOP) nullflutter: INFO subiquity_status: null => ApplicationStatus(state: ApplicationState.WAITING, confirmingTty: , error: null, nonreportableError: null, cloudInitOk: true, interactive: true, echoSyslogId: subiquity_echo.10820, logSyslogId: subiquity_log.10820, eventSyslogId: subiquity_event.10820)flutter: DEBUG subiquity_client: POST http://localhost/meta/mark_configured?endpoint_names=%5B%22mirror%22%2C%22proxy%22%2C%22ssh%22%2C%22snaplist%22%2C%22ubuntu_pro%22%5Dflutter: DEBUG subiquity_client: ==> markConfigured([mirror, proxy, ssh, snaplist, ubuntu_pro]) nullflutter: DEBUG desktop: Disabling screen blankingflutter: DEBUG desktop: Disabling screensaverflutter: DEBUG desktop: Inhibiting Gnome sessionflutter: INFO subiquity_status: null => ApplicationStatus(state: ApplicationState.WAITING, confirmingTty: , error: null, nonreportableError: null, cloudInitOk: true, interactive: true, echoSyslogId: subiquity_echo.10820, logSyslogId: subiquity_log.10820, eventSyslogId: subiquity_event.10820)flutter: INFO subiquity_status: null => ApplicationStatus(state: ApplicationState.WAITING, confirmingTty: , error: null, nonreportableError: null, cloudInitOk: true, interactive: true, echoSyslogId: subiquity_echo.10820, logSyslogId: subiquity_log.10820, eventSyslogId: subiquity_event.10820)flutter: DEBUG subiquity_client: GET http://localhost/meta/interactive_sectionsflutter: DEBUG subiquity_client: ==> getInteractiveSections() nullflutter: INFO locale: Loaded 75 languagesflutter: DEBUG subiquity_client: GET http://localhost/localeflutter: DEBUG subiquity_client: ==> locale() "en_US.UTF-8"flutter: INFO locale: Selected en_US as UI languageEdit: formatting
weird behaviour when waking up from suspend weird behaviour when waking up from suspendu/visorforavisor•12 days agoweird behaviour when waking up from suspenddoes anyone know how I stop it doing this?I tell it to suspend. it does so. later on, I wake it up. after me logging in and maybe 20 seconds more, the screen flickers to black and then it asks me to log again. except this time, it has forgotten that wifi exists (not just my specific network; wifi doesn’t show up in settings or anything). then it flickers to black and asks me to log in and has remembered wifi exists. and round and round. if I ask it to suspend again while it is doing this it acts like I’ve not pressed anything.to answer questions I anticipate:plain Ubuntu, not Xubuntu.yes, most recent version.only put it on this machine less than a month ago.it started doing this before I’d done anything in the terminal.it doesn’t do this every time I suspend it, but there’s not much of a pattern.the only solution I’ve found it to power it fully off and start again from there, but it often doesn’t want to and I have to hold down the power button.I grew up on Xubuntu, not Ubuntu, so I am less confident with this version.any ideas? thank you so much!
Brother dcp7040 Brother dcp7040u/Infamous-Back-8546•12 days agoBrother dcp7040I've installed the Brother printer just fine . I went to scan some documents and It wouldn't pick up the scanner. So I've researched from Brothers website from ask Ubuntu Google and did everything they said and it still won't recognize my scanner. I do have a Windows computer just for one program I use and it scans through that just fine. I do have it plugged into a KVM switch Windows sees it but Ubuntu doesn't. Yes I have taken out of my KVM switch and plugged it into my laptop and it still doesn't scan It doesn't even see it but when I do grep everything is there not sure what the issue is.  Anyone have any other ideas? I've also uninstalled and reinstall everything to know avail.
Error during Ubuntu upgrade to 25.1 Error during Ubuntu upgrade to 25.1u/Bobiche31•3 days agoError during Ubuntu upgrade to 25.1
Broken bootloaders after installing fedora Broken bootloaders after installing fedorau/Fun_Drive_9330•12 days agoBroken bootloaders after installing fedoraBroken bootloaders after installing fedorar/Fedora•12 days agoBroken bootloaders after installing fedoraSo before all this i had a working linux mint + windows 11 dualboot, i decided to try fedora so i backed up my configs and installed fedora. I setup mountpoints so that fedora root will be put in mints root partition and /boot/efi in the boot partition ofcourse. When the installation completed i was dropped into grub rescue and as the error message shows in the image it appears to try to boot from mint which doesnt exist so it obviously fails, I boot into the live usb again trying to fix by deleting the ubuntu EFI folder, reinstalling grub but that still doesnt help and i also found that somehow windows bootloader also got deleted somehow. I disable secure boot in uefi settings and look through the boot options but the only choices are drive names, not OSs like fedora or windows or ubuntu. Im really stressing over this ive been trying to fix for a few hours but i cant boot into anything atm except for the live usbI shouldve completely deleted mint first and its bootloader then installed fedora in that unallocated space but I didn't 🥲
Installing Ubuntu from a phone to an external drive Installing Ubuntu from a phone to an external driveu/marcelsoftware-dev•25 days agoInstalling Ubuntu from a phone to an external drive
Ubuntu VM on MacBook air m4, VMware fusion or UTM? Ubuntu VM on MacBook air m4, VMware fusion or UTM?u/SubstanceFew5136•12 days agoUbuntu VM on MacBook air m4, VMware fusion or UTM?Would like to know which one is the right choice to run Ubuntu on VM, on an M4 MacBook. I have read VMware has got better graphics from other Reddit threads.If anyone can explain pros and cons of both VMware fusion and utm for apple silicone, it would be really helpful.
Vitual machine not installing Ubuntu (installation gets stuck,have to do uni assignments) Vitual machine not installing Ubuntu (installation gets stuck,have to do uni assignments)u/EmploymentUnlikely15•3 days agoVitual machine not installing Ubuntu (installation gets stuck,have to do uni assignments)I'm trying Ubuntu on a virtual machine.but not once it worked or installed I get so many errors each time and once I resolve those errors and reach the installation progress bar it gets stuck after some while and gets stuck forever.I don't know what to do with what's wrong with  it I applied every yt tutorial but nothing's working.Also my PC has 8 gb ram and has win 11 people suggest me to install win 10 and it'll work on it. would it really work on win 10? is this really an issue?Please help me with this I have my university assignments pending and I don't know what to do.
QUALCOMM WiFi firmware issue with dualboot (ubuntu and windows 11) QUALCOMM WiFi firmware issue with dualboot (ubuntu and windows 11)u/Dry_Degree_8116•12 days agoQUALCOMM WiFi firmware issue with dualboot (ubuntu and windows 11)QUALCOMM WiFi firmware issue with dualboot (ubuntu and windows 11)r/linux4noobs•12 days agoQUALCOMM WiFi firmware issue with dualboot (ubuntu and windows 11)So I have my pc running ubuntu 22.04 and windows 11 dual boot. My motherboard is msi x870 gaming plus wifi which uses qualcomm firmware for wifi and Bluetooth.when I boot into windows after using ubuntu my wifi is disabled.when I searched online I found out that qualcom firmware doesn't reset after shutdown so using dual boot is causing the firmware problem.  Is there any solution to enable wifi again.I already tried turning off fast boot and turning on my pc . Unplugged my psu and tuned on my pc again but didn't work.In ubuntu I added "pcie_aspm=off" in grub and did update-grub and restart this didn't work either .Unloaded the ath11k driver but didn't work.Any fix will be appreciated.1upvote·6comments
Warframe long load times and stuttering on Ubuntu Warframe long load times and stuttering on Ubuntuu/BangaAnan•6 days agoWarframe long load times and stuttering on UbuntuThis is for anyone having these problems currently. I was able to fix the problems on my dad's new laptop running Ubuntu as his final move away from Windows 11. The one condition was he absolutely had to have Warframe running on his new laptop when I finished setting it up. For three days I couldn't figure out why Warframe was running so badly. At first I thought it was a driver issue because the Gemini (Juno Computer) is a all Intel system running a Arrow Lake integrated GPU. Then I thought the SSD might be bad but that didn't make sense either. For three days this had me baffled.I finally figured it out about an hour ago. The Gemini has two SSDs in it. I installed all of my dad's Steam games on the second SSD. Warframe absolutely did not like this. Testing a theory, I uninstalled the game and re-installed it on the main SSD and it worked. The game ran perfectly afterward.I know mileage varies due to the vast array of hardware configurations out in the wilds, but this is the solution that worked for my dad's new Linux computer. He was skeptical about dumping Windows, but I finally convinced him to switch and he wanted to give Ubuntu a try. So far, he really likes it especially now that Warframe is running so well on it.
How is THAT a common word How is THAT a common wordu/gluetheknot•6 days agoHow is THAT a common word
Desktop issues Ubuntu 25.10 Desktop issues Ubuntu 25.10u/Khetheb•12 days agoDesktop issues Ubuntu 25.10Hi, I couldn't find any post related to this anywhere on the internet, so : I'm on Ubuntu 25.10 with GNOME 49 Wayland, and it seems that the desktop behave weirdly.- I was given the impression that I had to force move files by holding shift but it seems I no longer have to to this- The desktop icon is missing if you add it to Nautilus sidebar, and I can't find a way to fix this for now. The icon isn't missing anywhere else.So, it seems I finally only have one issue. Any idea ?
Security issues for a very new user Security issues for a very new useru/Patient_Guidance_874•12 days agoSecurity issues for a very new userI had my laptop next to me with a YouTube video as I worked. I recently made the switch from Windows to Linux and I'm very very uneducated so far.I paused the video to leave and do something and when I came back it had gone to sleep so I went to enter my password again and it just wouldn't work. I'm absolutely confident it was correct so I went into recovery mode and after some head scratching I was able to reset the password and get in.I had disconnected from the wifi and gone into airplane mode as soon as I realised the password(I wouldnt forget) was longer working.My question is what do I do now. I'm not reconnecting to the wifi again as, though I should have known it would be an issue, it's not a very secure university wifi.Please forgive my ignorance but I just don't know what steps to take for securing myself moving forward.
Help Helpu/Top_Opportunity_3177•13 days agoHelpI installed Ubuntu on virtual machine how to install and use on dual boot which is better  I guess
Ubuntu installer stuck / black screen on HP Victus (RTX, nomodeset didn’t help) Ubuntu installer stuck / black screen on HP Victus (RTX, nomodeset didn’t help)u/LuciusJunior•13 days agoUbuntu installer stuck / black screen on HP Victus (RTX, nomodeset didn’t help)
Microphone noise Microphone noiseu/Repulsive_Bedroom_44•3 days agoMicrophone noiseI am using Ubuntu 24.04.3 on my Asus Vivobook 16. When I have a call on Teams-for-Linux or make a call via Linphone using my analog headset, there is some background noise. Is there any tweak I need to do? I tried 2 analog headsets, but the issue persists. I did some tweaking via pavucontrol, but the result is the same. Without any headset connected, pavucontrol detects noise when it is absolute silence as you can see at pavucontrol image. Apparently using BT headset solves the issue. Has anyone figured this out? Thanks in advancepavucontrol
Curious behavior in Gnome - Overnight Crash and Restart Curious behavior in Gnome - Overnight Crash and Restartu/JoelPomales•6 days agoCurious behavior in Gnome - Overnight Crash and RestartI have two laptops running Ubuntu 24.04 LTS. One's a Dell the other a Thinkpad. I leave them running all the time unless I reboot them or they ask to be rebooted.The Dell's a champ. But quite often when I come back to the Thinkpad I find that Gnome has crashed and I need to log in again.I can't pin what it is, but I have some suspects. I was running the Touchportal Linux beta AppImage (the poor man's Streamdeck) but that wasn't it. I run the Tuba Mastodon client and it sometimes crashes and asks to be force quit. This may be it. I also have a Jabra speaker connected via Bluetooth that sometimes is problematic.The logs are a bit cryptic, so I don't know what exactly crashed Gnome. Anything else I should be looking for?
Back to Linux after finally giving up on windows, but wanting my vr too Back to Linux after finally giving up on windows, but wanting my vr toou/Nosgarth•13 days agoBack to Linux after finally giving up on windows, but wanting my vr tooBack to Linux after finally giving up on windows, but wanting my vr toor/linux4noobs•13 days agoBack to Linux after finally giving up on windows, but wanting my vr tooSo as it says in the title, I've gone back to Linux (kububtu currently) after having run solely windows for years now, and I'm loving it and the fact most of my games run great etc, but I'm unable to get my vr headset to work (hp reverb G2 and Nvidia 2080ti) so I'm stuck having dual boot for now. Can anyone tell me a: if it's worth messing around to try to get it working in kububtu, b: if Theres a a better choice of distro for it, or c: if I should just wait it out till better/easier vr compatability is available and dual boot till then?1upvote·16comments
Does it really matter? Does it really matter?u/TET0_•27 days agoDoes it really matter?
My Ubuntu Desktop My Ubuntu Desktopu/Any-Bumblebee4599•13 days agoMy Ubuntu Desktop
Buf when loading into Ubuntu live USB Buf when loading into Ubuntu live USBu/BlurioTheUTFan•13 days agoBuf when loading into Ubuntu live USB
issue with DHCP (and fix?) issue with DHCP (and fix?)u/rsgmodelworks•3 days agoissue with DHCP (and fix?)Ubuntu 25.10 in Virtualbox.  Two interfaces, one to a local (lab) LAN and one to NAT for internet access.  If I turn off DHCP for the local interface using "Settings" it does not actually turn it off.  It lets you change the setting (radio button) but that has no effect.  Editing the /etc/netplan files to say "dhcp4:false" seems to fix it.
I Made a Music Player For Linux I Made a Music Player For Linuxu/AcanthisittaLow5562•12 days agoI Made a Music Player For Linux
USB Drives for Media Server USB Drives for Media Serveru/Dependent_Bonus_5186•5 days agoUSB Drives for Media ServerHi,I am wanting to set up a jellyfin server on the lastest version of ubuntu, but all my media is stored on different drives. I currently have a 120gb ssd with windows installed, which is where I am planning to install ubuntu. I also have a 1tb internal hard drive, and 2 2tb external hard drives. Will I be able to run jellyfin without formatting these drives, or would I have to format them in order for them to work correctly?
Question about new LTS Question about new LTSu/Interesting-Soft6092•16 days agoQuestion about new LTSI want to install Ubuntu because at the end is the most complete and stable distro I ever used.But I really want to have a fresh 26.04 LTS (when released) installed on my computer.What can I do until then? Reinstalling is always a bit of an hassle, but I don‘t want to just upgrade and maintain older software and settings.It is better to still use the actual LTS or use the most recent 25.10? What is the most reliable backup and restore application for my data?Thank you for reading my request.
What screenshot tools do you use? What screenshot tools do you use?u/princeBobby92•4 days agoWhat screenshot tools do you use?Hey Everyone,I’m a fresh user migrating from Windows to Linux. I’ve recently resurrected my old Lenovo X270 to use Ubuntu 24.04 LTS as my new daily driver.I’m genuinely impressed by how polished the experience is, but as an IT professional who does a lot of system documentation, I’m struggling to find a screenshot tool that matches my Windows workflow (ShareX/ShareNot).My Requirements:Immediate Editor: A region capture should open an editor instantly.Security/Privacy: I need quick tools for blurring/pixelating sensitive data (IPs, usernames, etc.) before saving.Efficiency: It must be an "Annotate -> Immediate Copy to Clipboard" pipeline.What I’ve tried so far on 24.04 (Wayland):Built-in Screenshot Tool: Clean, but way too basic for documentation (no blurring/arrows).Flameshot: I love the UI, but I’m running into the classic Wayland issues where flameshot gui fails to trigger or capture properly.Ksnip: Feature-rich, but the workflow feels a bit clunky and less "instant" compared to ShareX.Since 24.04 defaults to Wayland, I learned that capturing is handled differently for security reasons. Is there a hidden gem or a specific configuration (maybe a Flatpak or a script wrapper) that you guys use for professional-grade documentation?Or have most of you just switched to X11 to get these tools working properly?Curious to hear your recommendations or solutions.
Unable to create partition Unable to create partitionu/GieroxPro•13 days agoUnable to create partition
[GNOME] Finally giving Ubuntu the bar it deserves. Now with Native Spotify Like/Dislike & Album Art. [GNOME] Finally giving Ubuntu the bar it deserves. Now with Native Spotify Like/Dislike & Album Art.u/Far-Cartographer3299•21 days ago[GNOME] Finally giving Ubuntu the bar it deserves. Now with Native Spotify Like/Dislike & Album Art.
Since Everyone Is Posting Their Desktops Here's My Ubuntu Desktop, ?/10 Since Everyone Is Posting Their Desktops Here's My Ubuntu Desktop, ?/10u/ill0aq•13 days agoSince Everyone Is Posting Their Desktops Here's My Ubuntu Desktop, ?/10
Need Help for using WSL Ubuntu on my Wi**ows pc Need Help for using WSL Ubuntu on my Wi**ows pcu/Monster_King_227•13 days agoNeed Help for using WSL Ubuntu on my Wi**ows pcNeed Help for using WSL Ubuntu on my Wi**ows pcr/Ubuntu•13 days agoNeed Help for using WSL Ubuntu on my Wi**ows pcI am very new to linux , i use a bit older generation laptop for my day to day use (256 GB storage, Integrated Graphics), i am trying learn Linux but i do need windows for other stuff too, so i came to know about WSL , but i coulndn't find good tutorials for learning to use Ubuntu on WSL , any tips are WelcomeThank You for reading :)1upvote·4comments
Switch to Ubuntu? Switch to Ubuntu?u/NightChant_•16 days agoSwitch to Ubuntu?I've been using Windows for 7 years, but the latest Windows 11 updates are awful. I'm considering switching to Ubuntu. Will there be any issues with that?
Need Help for using WSL Ubuntu on my Wi**ows pc Need Help for using WSL Ubuntu on my Wi**ows pcu/Monster_King_227•13 days agoNeed Help for using WSL Ubuntu on my Wi**ows pcI am very new to linux , i use a bit older generation laptop for my day to day use (256 GB storage, Integrated Graphics), i am trying learn Linux but i do need windows for other stuff too, so i came to know about WSL , but i coulndn't find good tutorials for learning to use Ubuntu on WSL , any tips are WelcomeThank You for reading :)
Ubuntu AppArmor applicaiotns problems since last kernel update Ubuntu AppArmor applicaiotns problems since last kernel updateu/RuinComprehensive451•7 days agoUbuntu AppArmor applicaiotns problems since last kernel updateAfter updates of Ubuntu 25.10 kernel I had a lot of issues with all my applications.  google-chrome still crashes:"[10168:10168:0206/122308.868250:FATAL:sandbox/linux/services/credentials.cc:131] Check failed: . : Permission denied (13)Trace/breakpoint trap (core dumped)"Element is not working as well with the same problem.Joplin had issues for few days and now they are fixed.Built in image viewer still does not work... And I have not checked other application that might be also affected.The only option is to use "--no-sandbox" for this applications.Anyone else experienced this? Is it something known or it should be reported?
File save dialogs suddenly very slow File save dialogs suddenly very slowu/PrysmX•13 days agoFile save dialogs suddenly very slowNot sure exactly what happened, but for a few weeks now suddenly all my file open dialogs are very slow and seem to get slower the more times I try to do it. Occasionally one will be almost instant, but then it's right back to taking forever again (I'm talking minutes for it to appear). This is primarily from browsers including Brave and Firefox, and I also see the same with Discord. Local applications do not seem to be affected. Also, if it's a video that I'm downloading on Discord for example that doesn't open a file dialog the video downloads instantly.I'm at wits end trying to figure out how to even diagnose this or where to start debugging. Help!
fell in love with this.. fell in love with this..u/finixto•11 days agofell in love with this..recently switched to linux, already loving it. bye bye windows
Ubuntu 25.10 on a ThinkCentre reboots instead of shutting down Ubuntu 25.10 on a ThinkCentre reboots instead of shutting downu/OrdinaryQuokka•6 days agoUbuntu 25.10 on a ThinkCentre reboots instead of shutting downI set up Ubuntu on a Lenovo ThinkCentre with an Ivy Bridge or Haswell processor. Ubuntu 25.10 runs very well on the machine. But one issue was only noticed when I wanted to finish and go home in other words, shutdown the computer. The computer did not shutdown but rebooted. Only solution we could came up with is to force the shutdown, which probably isn't a good idea for the long term.Any idea what I could check next time I'm on the device to fix or at least dignose the issue? Thanks in advance.
Installation Installationu/Logical_String_9651•13 days agoInstallation
"My desktop" posts "My desktop" postsu/karlis_i•13 days ago"My desktop" postsI think this might not be the best sub for that kind of posts. They don't help anyone understand Ubuntu better, there's nothing of value.r/unixpornmight be the place for showing out your desktops, let's keepr/Ubuntufor discussing how to correctly install GPU drivers, setting up stuff and so on?
Touchpad stopped working Touchpad stopped workingu/happy_hawking•3 days agoTouchpad stopped workingMy computer is a ThinkPad T14 Gen 1 AMD. I'm running Ubuntu 24.04.3 on Wayland.After a recent update during the last couple of days, the touchpad just stopped working. A mouse connected through USB dongle still works perfectly.Turning the touchpad off/on in the system settings didn't fix it.Restarting the touchpad driver withsudo modprobe psmousedidn't fix it either.So I thought that a reboot should fix it.It didn't.I didn't change anything in the BIOS, I don't know about any hidden switch that I might have accidentally pressed, I can only guess that one of the updates broken the touchpad.So how do I go about this?And why the f*ck is stuff like this happening all the time? Whenever I feel like my system is running smoothly and making me productive, Ubuntu doesn't fail to throw a stick between my legs. I hate it.
Support compiling a driver Support compiling a driveru/Kuro507•3 days agoSupport compiling a driverI have just installed a Raspberry Pi 4 (4GB RAM) with Ubuntu 25.10 (questing) Server edition.I know almost nothing about Ubuntu, so please be kind :)I need to add a 2nd wifi adapter, so I purchased a TP-Link 300mb one which lists Ubuntu as supported.PDF instructions for the driver talk about Development Environment Ubuntu 16.04 LTS.I have managed to copy the driver folder from Windows to the Ubuntu server, it was zipped up, so now unzipped and in a folder called /wifiadapter/wifi/Instruction steps:Compile the driver:$ apt-get install gcc - completed successfullyInstructions mention the Ubuntu version they used had gcc5.4.0$ make clean - appears to work ok$ make - some errors:xxx507@Outlander-PHEV-Pi:~/wifiadapter/wifi$ makemake ARCH=aarch64 CROSS_COMPILE= -C /lib/modules/6.17.0-1007-raspi/build M=/home/xxx507/wifiadapter/wifi  modulesmake[1]: Entering directory '/home/xxx507/wifiadapter/wifi'make[1]: *** /lib/modules/6.17.0-1007-raspi/build: No such file or directory.  Stop.make[1]: Leaving directory '/home/xxx507/wifiadapter/wifi'make: *** [Makefile:1828: modules] Error 2I am lost, can anybody please offer advice?
Sorry for no screenshot. Running Ubuntu desktop on a 500gb m.2 drive. The drive is just for the OS and a docker jellyfin install. I cannot restart because these files are ballooning in size. If I do and there's a pending update (like there is currently) I'm screwed. What can I do?? Sorry for no screenshot. Running Ubuntu desktop on a 500gb m.2 drive. The drive is just for the OS and a docker jellyfin install. I cannot restart because these files are ballooning in size. If I do and there's a pending update (like there is currently) I'm screwed. What can I do??u/DeckardTBechard•6 days agoSorry for no screenshot. Running Ubuntu desktop on a 500gb m.2 drive. The drive is just for the OS and a docker jellyfin install. I cannot restart because these files are ballooning in size. If I do and there's a pending update (like there is currently) I'm screwed. What can I do??
Help me Help meu/Vavelion•4 days agoHelp meLinux 24.4 and 24.10 wont install on my 8gb RAM laptop, i am using 22.4 and there all apps stopped working, how can I install new linux ubuntu?
Dell Latitude 5285:  Any advice on getting Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTS workign with the camera? Dell Latitude 5285:  Any advice on getting Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTS workign with the camera?u/babydalek70•4 days agoDell Latitude 5285:  Any advice on getting Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTS workign with the camera?Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTS works fine and was able to get everything up and running but not the Internal and external webcam.I ran Lsusb and hardware was there as a intergrated webcam HDand tired to follow the guide herehttps://www.dell.com/support/kbdoc/en-uk/000129819/a-guide-to-webcams-on-dell-notebook-and-desktop-pcs-with-ubuntu-operating-systemsHowever when I run Cheese or anything the camera is not recognised.Any thoughts?  Would love a guide if there was one out there
Helpp Helppu/Ok_Day_3959•12 days agoHelpp
Advice sought for two disc ubuntu installation Advice sought for two disc ubuntu installationu/Stephen1729•4 days agoAdvice sought for two disc ubuntu installation****** UPDATE ******In the end I decided to manually configure the partitions as i wanted the /home on the SSD as a separate partition. Everything went OK because I studied a number of YouTube videos that gve worked examples (see below)I configured by SSD thusly with three partitions:EFI - 1.3 GB,Ubuntu (/) - 120 GBHome (/home) - 335 GB /homeUseful links:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fZ6feAQnOFU&t=2shttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lOmsXabKqK4&t=1412sI was please to see that Ubuntu automatically mounted by HDD under /media as an NTFS partition. I don't need it and I will reformat and mount as an ext4 but it is a nice touch**********************************Hi, am re-purposing an old Windows 10 box to Ubuntu Desktop 24.04.  I am going to wipe whatever is on the PC at the moment.  It has a SSD and HDDDisc 0 (SSD): 200MB EFI partition, 463GB NTFS boot basic data partition, 1.95GB unidentified by WindowsDisc 1: (HDD): 1863GB primary partitionI want to install Ubuntu system on the SSD and use the HDD for data.  So far so conventional.I have installed ubuntu many times before as I have re-purposed XP and Win7 boxes.  But this seems ridiculously complicated and I had to abort the install as I was not confident I was configuring the partitions correctly.  I would have hoped that the Ubuntu install would have had a standard option to cope with this very common scenarioSo any pointers would be appreciated.  Should I just install on Disc 0 and ignore the HDD then post installation format it as ext4 and mount it?Many thanks in advance for assistance
Ubuntu upgrade from 25.04 to 25.10 Ubuntu upgrade from 25.04 to 25.10u/Ordinary-You8102•13 days agoUbuntu upgrade from 25.04 to 25.10Sooo I missed the train to upgrade to 25.10 directly from 25.04 sadly, am I cooked? only method I found is a bootable USB...
customisation help (zorin os) customisation help (zorin os)u/smokeyplayz2•6 days agocustomisation help (zorin os)Hello, I'm trying to figure out. is it possible for me to try to get a similar theme like chris titus has his, i know he is using arch. so far i kinda did some basic tweaks which i had to install the gnome tweaks and the extensions manager. i'm still a beginner linux user so i don't know much about anything.i'm using zorin os 18 core not pro. I do would like to know if it's possible to improve the performance of a ubuntu based destro.
One attribute on the HDD is incorrect, but the drive is working fine. One attribute on the HDD is incorrect, but the drive is working fine.u/orest_chornobai•13 days agoOne attribute on the HDD is incorrect, but the drive is working fine.Hello Community, I would like to inform you that I am new to Linux Ubuntu. So, after installation, I went to the Disks application, and there the 500Gb HDD (from Xbox One) shows that some attribute 1 is incorrect. I ran a full scan through Windows 10 using the command line (chkdsk D: /f /r) and guess what? It didn't find a single bad bit in the sectors. I think that SMART, also known as disk hardware, simply shows a log of events, such as old events like improperly shutting down the computer.Has anyone had similar problems? Should I start worrying?
Setting the display scale to a custom value (100 <= x <= 150) using fractional scaling and dbus Setting the display scale to a custom value (100 <= x <= 150) using fractional scaling and dbusu/edo-lag•6 days agoSetting the display scale to a custom value (100 <= x <= 150) using fractional scaling and dbus
Please, help me Please, help meu/Available_Zombie_217•13 days agoPlease, help meOlá, eu sou um brasileiro que entrou no mundo do Linux e suas distribuições recentemente, por recomendação do meu professor de robótica sobre usar dual boot entre Ubuntu e Windows. Eu prefiro o Ubuntu, mas recentemente meu Anydesk parou de funcionar e eu precisei mudar pro Cinnamon. Só que o Steam não tá funcionando direito no Ubuntu Cinnamon, não querendo iniciar certos jogos e outros com um baita lag. Eu queria resolver isso, alguém pode me dar uma força?
sudo apt install love sudo apt install loveu/RelevantHair9157•13 days agosudo apt install love
Brightness adjustment is laggy / 3 second delay Brightness adjustment is laggy / 3 second delayu/Bearing_Breaker•13 days agoBrightness adjustment is laggy / 3 second delayBrightness adjustment is laggy / 3 second delayr/linuxmint•13 days agoBrightness adjustment is laggy / 3 second delayHello friendly people of reddit!I have a brand new Lenovo P16 with Linux Mint 22 Cinnamon installed.Unfortunately, the brightness control is extremely laggy, with a delay of 3 seconds.The whole screen freezes for 3 seconds whenever I am pushing the buttons on the keyboard or use the slider in the menu.Is there any way of fixing this?I already tried this, but it didn't help...https://www.reddit.com/r/linuxmint/comments/1j3fbii/brightness_lag/Specs:OS: Linux Mint 22.3 x86_64Host: ThinkPad P16 Gen 3Kernel: 6.14.0-37-genericPackages: 2073 (dpkg), 24 (flatpak)Shell: bash 5.2.21Resolution: 1920x1200DE: Cinnamon 6.6.6WM: Mutter (Muffin)WM Theme: Mint-Y-Dark-Aqua (Mint-Y)Terminal: gnome-terminalCPU: Intel Ultra 7 265HX (20) @ 5.30Memory: 2742MiB / 31510MiBGPU: NVIDIA RTX PRO 1000 Blackwell (Driver 580.126.09)1upvote·3comments
Can't use internet after bring up wireguard tunnel, ubuntu 24.04. Probably because resolvconf is no longer supported? Can't use internet after bring up wireguard tunnel, ubuntu 24.04. Probably because resolvconf is no longer supported?u/nobeltnium•4 days agoCan't use internet after bring up wireguard tunnel, ubuntu 24.04. Probably because resolvconf is no longer supported?Can't use internet after bring up wireguard tunnel, ubuntu 24.04r/WireGuard•4 days agoCan't use internet after bring up wireguard tunnel, ubuntu 24.043upvotes·2comments
[Help] - Fresh ubuntu install lags [Help] - Fresh ubuntu install lagsu/thehami1•6 days ago[Help] - Fresh ubuntu install lagsHey everybody,I finally decided to switch to Linux and wanted to start my journey with ubuntu.I was ready for some start problems and for me to be required to troubleshoot and learn as I go but I am really close to giving up.I am experiencing stutters while just browsing, different applications as well as the terminal sometimes just dont seem to want to start, my pc straight up freezes from time to time like cursor isnt moving, keyboard inputs dont register.I have write that restarts arent the answers to all problems like I am used to on windows but the only way I got back to using my pc was through restarts.Also some restarts just dont help or rather dont get me to the selcting screen and login. After some restarts Im back on my desktop but my mouse isnt moving.Im trying to run a dual boot system with Win11 and Ubuntu. Maybe thats where some problems stem from.The win installation and the ubuntu installation are fresh. For ubuntu i have only installed Anki, Obsidian, KeePassXC, Steam, registered my google account and installed NVIDIA Drivers (580).Ive also tried to disable Wayland via editing the custom.conf file to WaylandEnable=false.Hardware of teh system:- CPU: Ryzen 7 9800X3D- GPU: NVIDIA RTX 3600ti- RAM: 32GB 6000MT CL32- 3x 2K Displays (but only one was connected via GPU while testing)Sadly, nothing that Ive tried seems to work. Im hoping you guys can help a bloody beginner.Thank you for your help in advance.
TurtleBot3 on a Windows laptop (Linux issues on Asus) TurtleBot3 on a Windows laptop (Linux issues on Asus)u/AwayTumbleweed6857•13 days agoTurtleBot3 on a Windows laptop (Linux issues on Asus)TurtleBot3 on a Windows laptop (Linux issues on Asus)r/ROS•13 days agoTurtleBot3 on a Windows laptop (Linux issues on Asus)Hi, I am a student trying to install TurtleBot3 on my laptop for research with my professor. There are two other simulators he recommended I install (PiRacer, DonkeyCar) but  for now I am trying to install TB3.Now, their guide requires Ubuntu 22.04.5 installation, which I tried to install as dual boot. However, it seems that there are a lot of compatibility issues with my laptop (Asus Rog Zephyrus G16) when using Ubuntu. The mousepad doesn't work, no brightness controls, shutdown/restart doesn't work as laptop's display and fans stay on. I tried to troubleshoot these issues but nothing seems to work.Another idea I had recently is to just use distrobox through WSL2, however I am not sure if it's even possible. I am not too familiar with Linux and I am wondering whether there are some limitations with WSL2 when it comes to racing simulators.What is my best bet in this situation? I am willing to even install another Linux distro as dual boot and use distrobox for Ubuntu 22.04.5 through it. However, the issues with Asus laptops when it comes to Linux distributions seem like an endless pain in the ass.3upvotes·10comments
AppIndicator Investigation AppIndicator Investigationu/Good-Ad4813•4 days agoAppIndicator InvestigationAppIndicator Investigationr/gnome•4 days agoAppIndicator InvestigationSome days ago this "..." icon appeared on the AppIndicator, I know that rebooting the computer or restarting the TopBar will probably remove it, but I want to discover what created it on the first place.Is there a way to trace/debug which app created this icon?4upvotes·4comments
Ubuntu Top Bar Ubuntu Top Baru/Progrex123•5 days agoUbuntu Top BarI can't be able to find any service that can help me add Year Name and Day of the Week name in the Top Bar of my Gnome
Why do everybody hate Ubuntu? Why do everybody hate Ubuntu?u/Interesting_Air3283•4 days agoWhy do everybody hate Ubuntu?
New kernel 6.17 on Ubuntu 24.04.3 New kernel 6.17 on Ubuntu 24.04.3u/dajiru•4 days agoNew kernel 6.17 on Ubuntu 24.04.3Hello community,Did anyone install the new kernel 6.17 using apt upgrade on a laptop with Nvidia card and got issues with the screens (i.e. additional monitor connected on hdmi and laptop screen not detected)?Edit: I boot with 6.14 and delete 6.17. I reinstalled the Nvidia drivers. All good. Thanks community
NVIDIA Brings GeForce RTX Gaming to More Devices With New GeForce NOW Apps for Linux NVIDIA Brings GeForce RTX Gaming to More Devices With New GeForce NOW Apps for Linuxu/nalleknas•22 days agoNVIDIA Brings GeForce RTX Gaming to More Devices With New GeForce NOW Apps for Linuxnewshttps://blogs.nvidia.com/blog/geforce-now-ces-2026/One of the biggest highlights is the launch of a native Linux app (starting with Ubuntu 24.04). Says a LOT about Ubuntu! Steady as a rock! 😆
TIL that Ubuntu versions refer to their release date TIL that Ubuntu versions refer to their release dateu/Yirom•9 days agoTIL that Ubuntu versions refer to their release dateBeen using Ubuntu daily since 20.04 (April 2020).... I just came to realize that 😅
Couldn't unlock! (after Super-L) Couldn't unlock! (after Super-L)u/Un_Ballerina_1952•13 days agoCouldn't unlock! (after Super-L)Edit to update: unable to reproduce this issue. Please ignore me.Ubuntu 24.04.3 fully up-to-date on a Clevo PD70. I normally leave my laptop unlocked with the screen dimmed/blanked/blacked/off. This time, I decided to Super-L lock it when I left, and it wouldn't unlock! I tried switching user to another account and that one worked, but my primary account was seriously locked out.I checked I was using the correct password while the Super-L lock was engaged -- ended up cycling power to get back in. After I got back in, I tried selecting the Lock icon on the drop-down and that worked fine to lock and my password unlocked it just fine.Anyone else have this experience? Now I'm suffering anxiety over my quick'n'easy Super-L when I decide to lock.
Why are there so many apparmor DENIED messages from firefox in my dmesg? Why are there so many apparmor DENIED messages from firefox in my dmesg?u/GGoldenChild•14 days agoWhy are there so many apparmor DENIED messages from firefox in my dmesg?[173211.543777] audit: type=1400 audit(1769773735.443:7445): apparmor="DENIED" operation="open" class="file" profile="snap.firefox.firefox" name="/proc/pressure/memory" pid=190451 comm="MemoryPoller" requested_mask="r" denied_mask="r" fsuid=1000 ouid=0
Alguien me ayuda? Alguien me ayuda?u/v10aT•5 days agoAlguien me ayuda?Quize hacer una dual-boot pero no me deja
display help? display help?u/UwUificatonFetish•14 days agodisplay help?display help?r/GPDPocket•14 days agodisplay help?5upvotes·9comments
PS4 Controller on Ubuntu: Touchpad Works But Buttons Don't - jstest Shows Inputs But Games Can't Detect Them PS4 Controller on Ubuntu: Touchpad Works But Buttons Don't - jstest Shows Inputs But Games Can't Detect Themu/EntrepreneurWaste579•14 days agoPS4 Controller on Ubuntu: Touchpad Works But Buttons Don't - jstest Shows Inputs But Games Can't Detect ThemI'm running Ubuntu and my PS4 controller connects fine, but only the touchpad is recognized. None of the buttons work in games or the OS, even thoughjstestshows they're working at the system level.I've already tried:Installingsteam-devicesRestartingThe controller shows up as "Wireless Controller" and jstest detects all button presses correctly, but mgba (and everything else) can't see any inputs. Same issue with my 8BitDo controller.Any ideas what's blocking applications from reading the gamepad inputs?EDIT: I guess I have found the solution: Wayland doesnt map controller like x11 did. It is up to the app to catch them. In my case mgba couldnt access it because the current user was not in the group "input".
ubuntu on chrombook, need help with shortcuts. ubuntu on chrombook, need help with shortcuts.u/SonicJrYT•4 days agoubuntu on chrombook, need help with shortcuts.Hi! I just installed ubuntu on my Chromebook and need some help. It is the HP Chromebook 14 G5. I wanted to make all the top row buttons function the same way they would on Chrome OS. So, the volume buttons would change the volume, the brightness buttons would change the brightness, etc. All of the top row buttons are as follows: Back Arrow, Forward Arrow, Reload, Fullscreen, Open Window Viewer, Brightness Down, Brightness Up, Mute, Volume Down, Volume Up, in that order from F1 to F10. I found a custom shortcut thing in the settings but I don't know any of the commands. Any help would be appreciated <3
Why does my steam game not launch? (unsupported graphics card) Why does my steam game not launch? (unsupported graphics card)u/Aggressive-Warthog-1•14 days agoWhy does my steam game not launch? (unsupported graphics card)Kernel: 6.14.0-37-generic arch: x86_64 bits: 64Desktop: GNOME v: 46.0 Distro: Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTS (Noble Numbat)Machine:Type: Desktop Mobo: Gigabyte model: B760M DS3H DDR4 v: x.xserial: <superuser required> UEFI: American Megatrends LLC. v: F4adate: 04/14/2023CPU:Info: 10-core (6-mt/4-st) 13th Gen Intel Core i5-13400 [MST AMCP]speed (MHz): avg: 879 min/max: 800/4600:3300Graphics:Device-1: NVIDIA GA104 [GeForce RTX 3070 Ti] driver: nvidia v: 580.126.09Display: x11 server:X.Orgv: 21.1.11 with: Xwayland v: 23.2.6 driver: X:loaded: nvidia gpu: nvidia,nvidia-nvswitch resolution: 1: 1920x10802: 1280x1024~75HzAPI: OpenGL v: 4.6.0 compat-v: 4.5 vendor: nvidia mesa v: 580.126.09renderer: NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3070 Ti/PCIe/SSE2Network:Device-1: Realtek RTL8125 2.5GbE driver: r8169Drives:Local Storage: total: 1.82 TiB used: 204.45 GiB (11.0%)Info:Memory: total: 16 GiB available: 15.46 GiB used: 1.72 GiB (11.1%)Processes: 382 Uptime: 0m Shell: Bash inxi: 3.3.34
Good AMD GPU for video editing Good AMD GPU for video editingu/Present-Trash9326•14 days agoGood AMD GPU for video editingWhich AMD GPU would you recommend for 4K video editing? It doesn't have to be the latest model.My PC is almost 9 years old and I'd like to replace my Nvidia GTX 960.
Fix for the Rounded Window Corners + Blur My Shell transparency bug Fix for the Rounded Window Corners + Blur My Shell transparency bugu/dhananjayporwal•14 days agoFix for the Rounded Window Corners + Blur My Shell transparency bugFix for the Rounded Window Corners + Blur My Shell transparency bugr/gnome•14 days agoFix for the Rounded Window Corners + Blur My Shell transparency bug65upvotes·15comments
Which one is better ? Which one is better ?u/Novel-Buddy-5294•19 days agoWhich one is better ?
Please help me Please help meu/LandryNorris•14 days agoPlease help meMy keyboard doesn’t work mouse nothing connected within the computer not a single usb port works switched from windows everything worked perfectly fine , upon switching to Ubuntu , I have been given a kernel panic error stating that (vps: unable to mount root fs on unknown-block(0,0)) first time ever on Linux please I need help 🙏
wakeup the screen remotely. wakeup the screen remotely.u/lomoos•14 days agowakeup the screen remotely.does anyone know how i can wakeup the screen remotely (via ssh) on ubuntu25 with x11?
Creating custom boot animation on Ubuntu mate enterprise mini server gone wrong. Creating custom boot animation on Ubuntu mate enterprise mini server gone wrong.u/Safe-Recognition1509•4 days agoCreating custom boot animation on Ubuntu mate enterprise mini server gone wrong.
Issues after recent kernel update from 6.14 to 6.17 Issues after recent kernel update from 6.14 to 6.17u/rmorales158•8 days agoIssues after recent kernel update from 6.14 to 6.17Is anyone else having issues with kernel updates breaking the wifi and bluetooth drivers. I was able to reload them after learning the lesson of not updating all my machines at once. *facepalm*! I'm just curious if it was just me.
Audio source cuts out and then pass the test Audio source cuts out and then pass the testu/The_Grand_Minister•4 days agoAudio source cuts out and then pass the test*Title meant to say "won'tpass the test"Hi all, I am using an M-Audio FastTrack audio interface that has a single input/output (typically used for recording music in a single track) that is plugged into the USB and play out of an amplifier. It generally works well, but sometimes it seems like certain videos will cut access to that output source, at which point I have to restart the computer to gain access again. It will allow me to select other sources, which will allow for playback, and it allows me to select the FastTrack, but it does not play therefrom, just silence. There does not seem to be a driver or recognition issue, and it plays great otherwise. Any recommendations?
After using Ubuntu for a month or more, I'm disappointed. After using Ubuntu for a month or more, I'm disappointed.u/No-Pudding-1227•4 days agoAfter using Ubuntu for a month or more, I'm disappointed.I have an ANV15-41-R2GT, also known as Acer Nitro V15, and I decided to install Ubuntu on it because I wanted to learn Linux on my first PC and my own operating system. The problem is that it came with several issues, such as Steam closing games on its own several times, and my headset microphone simply doesn't work on the laptop, even though it recognizes it. I really think Ubuntu is better than Windows due to my limited experience with both, but these numerous errors in a row will eventually lead me to switch to Windows tomorrow.I always follow step-by-step instructions and recommendations I find on the internet, and it never solves any of my problems. So far, I haven't found a solution for my microphone, and Steam games continue to close on their own sometimes. I've already reset the operating system three times (the factory default, because I didn't like it; the first Ubuntu I installed; then I tried Nobara because I was told it was a good distro for games, but it simply wouldn't connect to my internet; after that, I went back to Ubuntu). I'm really not sure if I'm doing something wrong, since I'm following the steps and the system is still bad. The worst part is that I love its interface and how it works; it's just kind of stressful to be stuck with the same problem for a month and never get it resolved. While I was posting this, my damn game on Steam crashed twice with the error "steam_app_1507580". If anyone is willing to help solve this, I'd appreciate it, but I'll warn you now that the basic help I tried to solve both problems didn't help at all, lol.
Ubuntu keeps throttling cpu Ubuntu keeps throttling cpuu/185EDRIVER•14 days agoUbuntu keeps throttling cpuNot under any specific load after a couple hours my laptop it'll just suddenly set all the maximum frequencies to 800 megahertz in my computer comes to a crawl unplugging and replugging it from the wall fixes it temps are totally normal....No idea why this is happening
Touchpad behavior on Windows: 🐢 | Touchpad behavior on Linux: 🐆 Touchpad behavior on Windows: 🐢 | Touchpad behavior on Linux: 🐆u/OkUnderstanding4355•1 mo. agoTouchpad behavior on Windows: 🐢 | Touchpad behavior on Linux: 🐆
Intel wifi 8265NGW not detected  (Ubuntu 24.04) Intel wifi 8265NGW not detected  (Ubuntu 24.04)u/nowIamposting•14 days agoIntel wifi 8265NGW not detected  (Ubuntu 24.04)Spoiler:  problem solved!I've gotten a hp elitedesk 800 G3  and it came with the Intel wifi 8265NGW card. It works under Windows, but is not recognized under  Ubuntu 24.04. No additional drivers too.I haven't used the terminal so far and read that there are issues with this card in the newer kernels. Anybody who can help me to get this thing working? I'm just a beginner with Ubuntu (terminal-wise)
new on ubuntu, my games run slow.... new on ubuntu, my games run slow....u/edunogg•14 days agonew on ubuntu, my games run slow....so i decided test ubuntu and all games run super slow, its because my vga drives?edit: games on steam, out of steam i just test tibia and runs fineedit1: ok my steam its fixed but now my resolution is a mess, i usa 125% scaling but every time i use 125% on ubuntu in nvidia my resolution its set to a big resolution and all seems small, when i put in nvidia 1920X1080 on ubuntu the scaling goes to 200%, how i fix that?
HELP PLZ! No audio on my 2015 Mac I erased macos btw any help would be greatly appreciated HELP PLZ! No audio on my 2015 Mac I erased macos btw any help would be greatly appreciatedu/kuyadza99•14 days agoHELP PLZ! No audio on my 2015 Mac I erased macos btw any help would be greatly appreciatedHELP PLZ! No audio on my 2015 Mac I erased macos btw any help would be greatly appreciatedr/zorinos•14 days agoHELP PLZ! No audio on my 2015 Mac I erased macos btw any help would be greatly appreciated6upvotes·7comments
Stuck on black screen at bootup Stuck on black screen at bootupu/Prawn1908•6 days agoStuck on black screen at bootupBeen running Kubuntu 25.10 for a few months with no issues but today I turned my PC on and after the mobo posts, my displays flicker a few times but I'm just stuck in a black screen with no cursor or anything.A few notes:I can enter UEFI fine before it goes to boot the OS.I don't get the usual Ubuntu loading splash screen during bootup at all.It will shut down fine by (short) pressing the power button, and when doing so the usual logo and "Ubuntu Questing Quokka (development branch)" splash with a loading circle comes up looking fine before the PC shuts off.I tried holding left shift during bootup but it made no difference in behavior.I tried unplugging all but one monitor and same problem.Any clue what I can try to troubleshoot this?
My Thinkpad T490 on Ubuntu turned dark screen when I connected Airpods My Thinkpad T490 on Ubuntu turned dark screen when I connected Airpodsu/Just_Qazaq_Nomad•6 days agoMy Thinkpad T490 on Ubuntu turned dark screen when I connected AirpodsMy Thinkpad T490 on Ubuntu turned dark screen when I connected Airpods. Any ideas why? I tried to wake it up by pressing the random keys and clicked on my mouse but no response.
Ubuntu UEFI entry disappears after disconnecting secondary drive (HP laptop) Ubuntu UEFI entry disappears after disconnecting secondary drive (HP laptop)u/OnlyCommittee6513•4 days agoUbuntu UEFI entry disappears after disconnecting secondary drive (HP laptop)Hi everyone,I’m running a dual-boot setup on an HP laptop.Windows is installed on my internal NVMe drive, and Ubuntu is installed on a secondary HDD (separate drive, not just a partition).Everything works fine as long as both drives are connected. GRUB shows up and I can choose between Ubuntu and Windows.However, if I disconnect the HDD (the one with Ubuntu) and boot into Windows, the UEFI boot entry for Ubuntu completely disappears. When I reconnect the HDD and reboot, there is no “UEFI Ubuntu” entry anymore, and the system only boots into Windows. I then have to reinstall or repair GRUB from a USB stick to make Ubuntu bootable again.So basically:•	HDD connected → Ubuntu works  •	HDD disconnected once → UEFI Ubuntu entry gets deleted  •	Reconnecting HDD → Ubuntu no longer bootsIt seems like the BIOS/UEFI (HP firmware) is automatically removing the Ubuntu boot entry when the drive is temporarily missing.Is this expected HP firmware behavior?Is there a permanent workaround so the Ubuntu boot entry doesn’t get deleted when the drive is temporarily disconnected?Thanks!
RTX 5060 ti, Ubuntu 24.04.3 RTX 5060 ti, Ubuntu 24.04.3u/Motor-Employ-635•15 days agoRTX 5060 ti, Ubuntu 24.04.3Hi, im new on linux and Ubuntu will be my first time. I saw a lot of issues with NVIDIA RTX 50 series card driver, does Ubuntu 24.04.3 support RTX 5060 ti now? Thanks!
Why is my GPU spiking while CPU isn't used at all when nothing runs on my laptop? Why is my GPU spiking while CPU isn't used at all when nothing runs on my laptop?u/Playful-Contract-161•4 days agoWhy is my GPU spiking while CPU isn't used at all when nothing runs on my laptop?
App Center is flickering on 25.10, GTX 1050 ti, it is fine on my laptop with integrated graphics. Why? App Center is flickering on 25.10, GTX 1050 ti, it is fine on my laptop with integrated graphics. Why?u/boeing_a380•9 days agoApp Center is flickering on 25.10, GTX 1050 ti, it is fine on my laptop with integrated graphics. Why?
Got hard block wifi after repaired, any help? Got hard block wifi after repaired, any help?u/Lunatic8oy•4 days agoGot hard block wifi after repaired, any help?
Any ideas? Any ideas?u/Theboyfromasgard•4 days agoAny ideas?Any ideas?r/Fedora•4 days agoAny ideas?I was able to install and run CATIA V5, but I have problems with screen tearing, flickering, and little tabs doing what they want... (this happens only when I try to reach for the tools, outside of the main window with the 3D model). Any suggestions how to fix it? (everything else works tho..)1upvote·2comments
I need help I need helpu/One-Relative-9671•4 days agoI need helpI need helpr/usebottles•4 days agoI need help3upvotes·2comments
PC keeps crashing to black screen with a single flashing white line in the top left corner PC keeps crashing to black screen with a single flashing white line in the top left corneru/WOODSHOE123•4 days agoPC keeps crashing to black screen with a single flashing white line in the top left cornerI try to play games like Payday 3 on Ubuntu but my PC crashes to the login screen after it freezes and gets to a black screen with some sort of typing prompt line flashing in the top left. Does anyone know what this means and how to fix it?Edit:Wrote this in a rush, here are my specs:GPU: RX 7900 XTXCPU: 7900X3DRAM: 64GB DDR5 6400mhzStorage: m.2 SSDs, one 2TB and one 4TBMonitor: 1440p 165hz
CUPS and Printer Problems and how to solve them? CUPS and Printer Problems and how to solve them?u/Awesome_Forky•6 days agoCUPS and Printer Problems and how to solve them?I am a noob and I am using Ubuntu for a few months now (f*CK Microsoft!). I have a Canon Printer I connect via USB and well.... It doesn't print. I did successfully use this printer to scan documents a few weeks earlier so I am confused. I am using Ubuntu 24.04. and my printer is a Canon PIXMA MG 2550 (but the Canon page only refers to Canon PIXMA MG 2500 series or refer to one special model (2520) that references back at that series.)Since my noobness is great I don't know how to go about solving my problem. How do I run diagnostics to find out possible problems?I found online only some solutions regarding HP printers. I also learned the printer settings seem to be called CUPS. (My sources are from AskUbuntu and discourse.ubuntu.com so I found them trustworthy enough).CUPS finds the printer without problems, but assigns a wrong model (a HP one) to my printer. When I try to print something I get a notification about printing being in progress and then that the printing is completed, though nothing happens at my printer.The "Search for drivers" button doesn't turn up anything new. I found one page that explained their solution finding process a bit more. There i found the commands "sudo systemctl restart cups" and "systemctl restart cups-browsed" which I also tried to no avail.My resident IT expert said he has no idea about printers and that I am on my own here. Some online comments suggested downloading canon drivers from the website to which my IT dude said: nope Ubuntu should have no problems and proprietary blown-up drivers from Canon shouldn't be needed. I found a .deb.tar.gz with drivers on the Canon website but I am hesitant to install these since my IT dude has my trust and there often is a good reason why he says the things he says. Plus in the folders are multiple debs and I am not sure which one is the correct one.Apparently there are multiple apt packages regarding different drivers from which not all are installed but I don't know how to find out which is the missing one.Can someone help me and explain how I find out if packages are missing? And maybe which commands are usually helpful when I want to find out why something doesn't work?
Ubuntu Desktop using Multipass on both Windows & Mac is unusable? Ubuntu Desktop using Multipass on both Windows & Mac is unusable?u/the_milanov•4 days agoUbuntu Desktop using Multipass on both Windows & Mac is unusable?So I wanted to install Ubuntu using official apps, so I went with multipass.But when I tried to use desktop gui, I followed their instructions multiple times, exactly on Macbook & Windows, gave 8gb of ram and 50gb of storage, and yet it's unusable.Everything is so laggy, and when I try to open terminal through GUI i get back error.I want to say that using UTM I had no issues, I installed ubuntu-desktop, and it runs great.I am just surprised that official is terrible and third party works well.
OPSEC/Privacy Training OPSEC/Privacy Trainingu/CurrentEvening6288•6 days agoOPSEC/Privacy TrainingHello Linux Family. I’m starting my journey into deep privacy/opsec, networking, cybersecurity, cryptography, etc. long long road but I’m starting with learning Ubuntu. What are some best practices and techniques to lock down my Lenovo thinkpad t14. Firewall, DNS, VPN, TOR, ETC. I’m completely NEW to all of this and seeking guidance from the community. I’ve grown to become a cypherpunk and want to live by the principles.
Linux Dual boot issue Linux Dual boot issueu/deathrays404•7 days agoLinux Dual boot issueLinux Dual boot issuer/linuxquestions•7 days agoLinux Dual boot issueSo I'm trying to install ubuntu as dual boot on my system and for that I freed up approx 150gb of drive C: space in which windows is contained but when I try to use windows disk manager it is not letting me create a new partition large enough. so I decided to use gparted which comes with the linux installer to create the disk partition and it is painstakingly slow approx 0.01% progess in 10 seconds. now i don't know if I should cancel the process or let it run. it is updating periodically(not hung yet) but it's too slow.is it supposed to be this slow ? should I stop it ?Edit - I let it run for a day and it partitioned my drive but it took 27 hours and finally I was able to install ubuntu2upvotes·8comments
Help with wifi for new user? 24.04 and kernel 6.17 Help with wifi for new user? 24.04 and kernel 6.17u/EagleCatbutnotHybrid•6 days agoHelp with wifi for new user? 24.04 and kernel 6.17So I just hopped over to Ubuntu from Mint and I have no wifi, not even an option to enable wifi.Apparently this is a common issue on Ubuntu that is normally solved by downloading and installing additional drivers, but my update screen is showing "no additional drivers available."I am on a Lenovo IdeaPad 5 with Intel for pretty much everything. My Ubuntu version is 24.04.3, and my kernel is 6.17.0-14-generic.A few days ago I was having this same issue on Mint when I updated to kernel 6.17, which was easily resolved by reverting back to kernel 6.14 and removing 6.17. However, I can't do that here because 6.17 is now the only installed kernel.Any help on the matter would be appreciated. I'll provide any details needed if you tell me how to find it.
Cannot install win 11 Cannot install win 11u/Every-Print3281•5 days agoCannot install win 11
Ubuntu 24.04 HWE: WiFi broken on all 6.14.x kernels (iwlwifi -110 timeout) Ubuntu 24.04 HWE: WiFi broken on all 6.14.x kernels (iwlwifi -110 timeout)u/gritli11•6 days agoUbuntu 24.04 HWE: WiFi broken on all 6.14.x kernels (iwlwifi -110 timeout)Hardware:Laptop: Lenovo IdeaPad Gaming 3 15IMH05WiFi: Intel Comet Lake PCH CNVi WiFi (QuZ-a0-jf-b0)iGPU: Intel Comet Lake (10th gen)dGPU: Nvidia (using proprietary drivers)Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTS with HWE kernel stacklogs aftersudo dmesg | grep iwlwifishow:iwlwifi: loaded firmware iwlwifi-QuZ-a0-jf-b0-77.ucodeNMI_INTERRUPT_LMAC_FATAL IML/ROM error/stateFailed to start RT ucode -110Failed to run INIT ucode -110 retry init count 2please any help is much appreciated
Win 11 keeps freezing after installing ubuntu dual boot Win 11 keeps freezing after installing ubuntu dual bootu/Zestyclose_Collar504•14 days agoWin 11 keeps freezing after installing ubuntu dual bootAfter installing dual boot, I cant play steam games as it keeps freezing whenever the laptpo's starting the game. Any possible solution?
Pinch-to-zoom creates a dark box Pinch-to-zoom creates a dark boxu/errowtin•5 days agoPinch-to-zoom creates a dark boxWhenever I pinch fingers on my touchpad to zoom in, some dark box appears that increases in size as I pinch, and when I let go of the touchpad, the page just zooms a tiny bit.I've tried disabling Magnification settings in Accessibility menu, but it didn't help.I'm using Ubuntu 24.04 on Wayland.Edited: Solved the problem. The Touchegg app that I installed for some reason was causing this. Works as expected after deleting the app. Hope it helps someone one day
Trying to get rid of crossover between my subwoofer and my speakers (HP Envy 15 - 24.04.3) Trying to get rid of crossover between my subwoofer and my speakers (HP Envy 15 - 24.04.3)u/JDmg•5 days agoTrying to get rid of crossover between my subwoofer and my speakers (HP Envy 15 - 24.04.3)My laptop is an old HP Envy 15-ae116tx (P6M17PA) that I installed 24.04.3 on. Sure enough, the bass didn't work and made popping and crackling noises the entire time.Managed to fix that by disabling the power saving and by actually connecting the bass speakers inhdajackretask.Now I just want the bass speakers to play the bass sounds and the normal front-firing speaker to play the mids and highs.What I've already tried:forced the Pins 0x14 (Front Speakers) and 0x17 (Bass Speakers) oncreated a config file for pulseaudio(on pipewire 1.0.5) to enable mixing (works? I can still hear the tweeters)writing (lol) a custom UCM2 profile, didn't even show up inpavucontrolpulse.properties = { }  stream.properties = {     channelmix.normalize = false     channelmix.mix-lfe = true     channelmix.upmix = true     channelmix.lfe-cutoff = 250     channelmix.fc-cutoff = 12000 }
Minecraft optifine Minecraft optifineu/Dull-Percentage-8409•15 days agoMinecraft optifineHi, Ive been trying to download and play optifine 1.21.11 and it just doesn't work, I have downloaded java and openjdk and it just doesn't want to open and install, have I missed something or is it just like that, can someone help?
Some love for Snaps Some love for Snapsu/HalPaneo•23 days agoSome love for Snaps
Linux absolute beginner: I wanna learn linux so I can use it as my only machine Linux absolute beginner: I wanna learn linux so I can use it as my only machineu/YoghurtFar965•10 days agoLinux absolute beginner: I wanna learn linux so I can use it as my only machineI am tired of Windows 11 ,it has so many ads and bloatware🙄literally it consumes all my ram and power usage .. I hate the overall feel of it . I don't play games much (minecraft occasionally) ,I use it for mainly browsing, movies,music sh... I am taking computer science as my major and I have heard ,Linux is better for coding ,is it? So I have this sudden urge to switch to Linux because I just wanna try it's different flavors or what you call Distros.' I also enrolled in a Udemy linux course.....I want to really learn it... Can someone suggest me what to do?..pls Guide me (Sorry for my english)
Just did a system update, laptop no longer seems to notice my external monitor Just did a system update, laptop no longer seems to notice my external monitoru/SomeSortaWeeb•15 days agoJust did a system update, laptop no longer seems to notice my external monitorAs the title says, my laptop just won't recognise my monitor. I have rebooted the laptop and monitor independently, I have unplugged the HDMI cable on both sides in an attempt to make the system recheck the port to no avail. Can anyone suggest anything else? Is there something I can do in the terminal to force the system to recheck the port?Many thanks in advance.
Ubuntu crashes on sleep Ubuntu crashes on sleepu/Electronic_Skill_984•5 days agoUbuntu crashes on sleepWhenever I close the laptop lid (triggering suspend / sleep), the system crashes instead of suspending.On closing the lid, the screen turns black and the system shows kernel warnings / stack traces (not a normal freeze). The machine becomes unresponsive and requires a hard reboot.From the logs, the crash appears to happen during power-management / suspend handling, specifically involving the proprietary NVIDIA driver (nvidia_modeset). The failure seems to occur during display power-off (vblank / modeset) and is followed by HDMI audio errors and other kernel warnings.This issue is reproducible every time the lid is closed. What should I do?
That's OK for me ;-) That's OK for me ;-)u/comopezenelagua•26 days agoThat's OK for me ;-)
Ubuntu 20 years later: feels like it lost its soul Ubuntu 20 years later: feels like it lost its soulu/faxafloi•14 days agoUbuntu 20 years later: feels like it lost its soulI remember that my first Linux that I installed on my first computer was Ubuntu 6.06, delivered a CD of a local computer magazine together with a 3 page review of Linux on the desktop. I was excited, having before only seen Windows 95 on my dad's work laptop.On windows 95, everything was just gray rectangular boxes, but Ubuntu had colors and rounded edges! The website had colors, too, with a picture of five people holding hands, and "Linux for human beings" or something as the slogan.Then at some point as I learned more about linux, I went for over a decade to arch linux, and when I had to set up a new laptop a few years ago, and - now being an adult with an adult life - didn't have time to play around with the computer and just wanted it to work, I installed Fedora. But deep down in me, Ubuntu was always the colorful, playful "linux for human beings", a distribution with a soul.Now that my newest laptop is on the way to me, and it being after two decades of black Thinkpads finally a colorful laptop (Thanks, Framework!), I was gonna check out, where Ubuntu is nowadays. Last Ubuntu I tried out was a netbook with the Unity shell, must have been 10.10, so I was curious, what the UX of it is now.I openedubuntu.comin the browser and was so confused. All gray with a few white lines and white text in a few different font sizes - did I open the wrong website? I googled "Ubuntu" and saw that it's actually the official website. Surely it must be the adblockers! I disabled Ghostery, PrivacyBadger, ublock origin & Adblock plus - nope, still the same. Opened the website on my girlfriend's macbook - still the same. Where is the nice linux for human beings that I remember?For you that are daily users of it nothing of what I'm saying about what Canonical is doing is probably news to you, but for me it feels like being the frog that comes home after a long time, still remembering the nice cool pot from its childhood only to realize that the pot is now boiling hot.Which distribution nowadays most encapsulates the old Ubuntu spirit?
Unable to install Antigravity on Ubuntu – 403 Forbidden error Unable to install Antigravity on Ubuntu – 403 Forbidden erroru/Lovepvs•15 days agoUnable to install Antigravity on Ubuntu – 403 Forbidden errorUnable to install Antigravity on Ubuntu – 403 Forbidden errorr/google_antigravity•15 days agoUnable to install Antigravity on Ubuntu – 403 Forbidden errorOS: Ubuntu 24.04I tried installing Antigravity using the official APT repo.The repo returns 403 Forbidden and apt update fails.Commands tried:- added GPG key- added repo- apt update → 403 ForbiddenI do not have a .deb file.Is this repo private or am I missing a step?2upvotes·2comments
Help Please, Ubuntu 24.04 - Setting up a bridged connection on second ethernet adapter for use with VMM Help Please, Ubuntu 24.04 - Setting up a bridged connection on second ethernet adapter for use with VMMu/Reticent_Robot•15 days agoHelp Please, Ubuntu 24.04 - Setting up a bridged connection on second ethernet adapter for use with VMMI've searched the web for any instructions I can find on this, but they are terminal and configuration editing based, and never seem to cover what to do inside of the VMM gui. I'm hoping someone with some experience with this can help me out.The machine has two physical nics in it. My primary ethernet adapter is enp6s0 - I have it reserved at192.168.1.100and use it to connect to the machine's services (Plex mainly). The second adapter is enp3s0, it has no real purpose yet but I have it reserved at192.168.1.104- I want to bridge that one to use with the VM.I'm trying to set up a VM in VMM/QEMU with a bridged connection so that I can assign ip192.168.1.101to it. What I'm not sure about is what I need to do here. Inside VMM's NIC settings I see the dropdown for Bridge device..., and once selected it wants the Device name: - am I supposed to bridge the device first and then put the bridged device name here (ex: br0), or do I just put the name of the physical adapter that I'd like to bridge here (ex: enp3s0) and it will take care of the rest (kind of like hyper-v does)?Alternatively, I don't suppose there's any way to just pass the network adapter hardware straight through to the VM without having to do anything with network bridges? Like maybe using PCI Host Device?
Is AdGuard a good solution? vs. in browser protection Is AdGuard a good solution? vs. in browser protectionu/NeonSkorpio•15 days agoIs AdGuard a good solution? vs. in browser protectionRecently moved from macos. I used to run AdGuard at system level and I was happy with the level of privacy. I am using now Brave with strict privacy settings. I see AdGuard is available in Linux. Is anybody using it? any thoughts about running at system level vs. firefox with adblock vs. Brave with strict parameters?. My threat vector level is only advertisement and profiling.
sudo snap remove --purge firefox only dissables firefox but not deletes? sudo snap remove --purge firefox only dissables firefox but not deletes?u/KafkaUnderTheTree•15 days agosudo snap remove --purge firefox only dissables firefox but not deletes?Like the title says, also have the same problem with thunderbird, dont find any useful info on google, so maybe you guys will know? Reboot does not solve the problem :Dsnap list   thunderbird        140.7.1esr-1                    959    latest/stable  canonical✓  disabled   firefox            147.0.1-1                       7672   latest/stable  mozilla✓    disabled  sudo snap remove --purge thunderbird  error: cannot perform the following tasks: - Remove data for snap "thunderbird" (959) (failed to remove snap "thunderbird" base directory: remove /root/snap/thunderbird: directory not empty)  sudo snap remove --purge firefox   error: cannot perform the following tasks:  - Remove data for snap "firefox" (7672) (failed to remove snap "firefox" base directory: remove /root/snap/firefox: directory not empty)Directories /root/snap/firefox and thunderbird does not exist
With Ubuntu 25.10 Questing Quokka just around the corner, what’s the one 'small' feature or fix you’re hoping for that isn't usually in the headlines? Personally, I’m just looking for smoother fractional scaling out of the box. With Ubuntu 25.10 Questing Quokka just around the corner, what’s the one 'small' feature or fix you’re hoping for that isn't usually in the headlines? Personally, I’m just looking for smoother fractional scaling out of the box.u/Nervous-Quit-6751•15 days agoWith Ubuntu 25.10 Questing Quokka just around the corner, what’s the one 'small' feature or fix you’re hoping for that isn't usually in the headlines? Personally, I’m just looking for smoother fractional scaling out of the box.
Medical shop using Linux near Mumbai Medical shop using Linux near Mumbaiu/Working-Trust-4012•9 days agoMedical shop using Linux near MumbaiMedical shop using Linux near Mumbair/LinuxUsersIndia•9 days agoMedical shop using Linux near Mumbai316upvotes·33comments
Need help with DaVinci resolve on ubuntu Need help with DaVinci resolve on ubuntuu/TIM13013•15 days agoNeed help with DaVinci resolve on ubuntuI have been using ibuntu as my main os for some time now but I NEED DaVinci to work on it for me to almost completely move over from windows (outside touhou) and I once tried to get it on ubuntu and broke my entire desktop and it was a downer but I dont wanna break it again I allredyvalmsot broke it a second time while costumzing it and im scared ill do it again so in short... does anyone know how to do it or link to a video that explains it very well? Ubuntu version lts 24.04
Ubuntu 24.04 Package Corrupted Ubuntu 24.04 Package Corruptedu/RsFrixi•6 days agoUbuntu 24.04 Package CorruptedUbuntu 24.04 Package Corruptedr/linuxhardware•6 days agoUbuntu 24.04 Package CorruptedI've tried every fix command you can think of, even deleted frontend files, ran `dpkg configure, but when I finally run `sudo apt update, it says the package cache is corrupted and gives another E: error. Please help! I have two USB drives and I tried to install Balerina Etcher, but I think I couldn't because the cache is corrupted. Please help, or help me reinstall Ubuntu.  The text that appears when you type inxi -r:└─$ inxi -rRepos:Active apt repos in: /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ubuntu.sources1: debhttp://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/noble noble-updates noble-backports main restricted universe multiverse2: debhttp://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/noble-security main restricted universe multiverseActive apt repos in: /etc/apt/sources.list.d/vscode.sources1: deb [arch=amd64]https://packages.microsoft.com/repos/codestable main1upvote·1comment
finally ended distrohopping journey with ubuntu finally ended distrohopping journey with ubuntuu/WolverineEqual6800•22 days agofinally ended distrohopping journey with ubuntu
New Ubuntu User - tips? New Ubuntu User - tips?u/Local_77•15 days agoNew Ubuntu User - tips?I just decided to make the jump from windows 11 to ubuntu a couple nights ago. So far, it's been a great experience, but it does feel like the OS could be a bit snappier. Any tips for someone new to the OS? I'm looking for really any kind of tips, whether that's the best location to go to search for advice, how to make it snappier, maybe even customization tips? I would love to try to apply some sort of retro aesthetic to the OS, just a very clean and simple look if possible.
2017 laptop on 25.10 2017 laptop on 25.10u/RepresentativeDoor03•16 days ago2017 laptop on 25.10I’ve recently migrate from windows 10 to Ubuntu with my still reliable Asus ROG laptop  (GL502 VMK) from 2017 because it can’t support Windows 11 according to Microslop.After choosing Ubuntu 25.10 as my new OS without researching further, I’m quite pleased with the overall performance of the machine, even with the occasional bugs like shutting down keep the fans going or failed to wake up after suspend.Due the age of the hardware (Intel i7 7700hq + GTX 1060) Do you consider I chose the  wrong version for my specs?
Switching to Ubuntu after using Fedora for a 2 months Switching to Ubuntu after using Fedora for a 2 monthsu/encryptedShresth•1 mo. agoSwitching to Ubuntu after using Fedora for a 2 monthsSwitching to Ubuntu after using Fedora for a 2 monthsr/Fedora•1 mo. agoSwitching to Ubuntu after using Fedora for a 2 monthsSo I decided to try Fedora because everyone kept saying it’s clean, modern, and close to “upstream Linux.” And honestly? At first, it felt really exciting. GNOME on Fedora looks beautiful, everything feels fresh, and I liked the idea of using something that’s close to what developers actually work on. But… using Fedora daily has been a bit of a rollercoaster. I ran into way more issues than I expected. Random UI glitches after suspend — sometimes the whole desktop would come back blank: no top bar, no dock, no icons, just a wallpaper staring at me. Video playback issues were constant. Some apps refused to launch properly. Turning on virtualization somehow broke my graphics. Fix one thing, and something else would break. And the worst part? It made me anxious to experiment. Every time I changed a setting, installed something new, or tried a tweak, I had this feeling like: “Is this going to break my system again?” Instead of enjoying Linux and learning, I was just firefighting problems. Don’t get me wrong — Fedora is powerful. It feels like a great distro for people who really want to stay close to the bleeding edge and don’t mind debugging often. But for me, as someone who just wants to learn, work, and chill on my system, it started to feel like standing in front of a crocodile: impressive, but stressful. So after about 2 months of using Fedora, I’ve decided to switch to Ubuntu. Not because Ubuntu is “better” in every way — but because I want a peaceful working environment. Something boring in a good way. Something that just works, lets me focus on my stuff, and doesn’t scare me every time I press “restart.” Fedora was fun. Fedora taught me a lot. But now I just want peace. 🧘‍♂️ Hello, Ubuntu — let’s see if you can give me that.40upvotes·95comments
No visible WiFi networks after laptop wakes up from suspend No visible WiFi networks after laptop wakes up from suspendu/seagduck•5 days agoNo visible WiFi networks after laptop wakes up from suspendI have a Asus Vivobook S14. Every time after I switch on my laptop after suspend there are no visible networks that I can connect to. The WiFi toggle does not switch off the WiFi and continues searching for networks. The airplane mod toggle hangs when pressed switches on for a second before returning to the off position.I am new to Ubuntu as I have only switched over recently from Windows for university. So if I have neglected to share any hardware data please let me know and I will do so promptly.Edit: My hardware probe linkhttps://linux-hardware.org/?probe=83641e3f0d
“Just switched to Ubuntu 24.04 LTS 🚀 Clean GNOME + Zsh setup on Asus Vivobook — thoughts?” “Just switched to Ubuntu 24.04 LTS 🚀 Clean GNOME + Zsh setup on Asus Vivobook — thoughts?”u/Bright-Search-9406•19 days ago•Brand Affiliate“Just switched to Ubuntu 24.04 LTS 🚀 Clean GNOME + Zsh setup on Asus Vivobook — thoughts?”
Fairly New on Ubuntu Fairly New on Ubuntuu/J_Chaka•6 days agoFairly New on UbuntuFairly New on Ubuntur/linux4noobs•6 days agoFairly New on UbuntuSo I'm watching Anime on one tab and I want to look up some stuff on another tab, but PiP isn't working. Does anyone know how I can solve this issue. I'm running an Ubuntu Distro and Brave is my browser.1upvote·3comments
Macos touchBar doesnt work on ubuntu Macos touchBar doesnt work on ubuntuu/Silver-Branch2383•7 days agoMacos touchBar doesnt work on ubuntuIs their any way to fix macos touchbar not working on ubuntu i’ve tried many ways but always nothing works my mac has t1 chip for anyone who needs to know.
Ubunto sound issue Ubunto sound issueu/lemonsoda_user69•5 days agoUbunto sound issueUbunto sound issuer/LinusTechTips•5 days agoUbunto sound issuehi so I am running ubunto 22.04 nobel edition as Virtual Machine on Hyper V.I tried to enable enhanced features and also allowed guest devices to run on my VM,installed and tweaked XRPD and ints .ini file , installed pulseaudio yet it's not working. I would like to take it as a remote PC as well but that too doesn't work. I am trying to login with an XORG session.any help ...1comment
Canonical ADSys Canonical ADSysu/sanjikick10•16 days agoCanonical ADSysHello,Was curious to see if anyone has used and what has been their experience been like with Canonical’s ADSys to apply Group Policy from Active Directory. Windows heavy shop trying to integrate Ubuntu machines into AD and apply group policy to help with central management. Or what other tools work with Joining Linux to AD and apply group policy.
Can't get Ubuntu Mate grub-install to complete successfully to 32-bit EFI Can't get Ubuntu Mate grub-install to complete successfully to 32-bit EFIu/OffbeatDrizzle•5 days agoCan't get Ubuntu Mate grub-install to complete successfully to 32-bit EFIhi all,I'm trying to get Ubuntu Mate working on one of those old cheap chinese bay trail tablets with a 64bit CPU but 32-bit EFI. Previously I had this running in the past with what looks to be a 4-5 year old version of Ubuntu gnome, but it's pretty slow and I've found that Ubuntu Mate works a lot, lot better and still retains all the features and usability that I want, hence trying to switch it overThere seems to be a bit of information about this from some googling... but it's all to do with getting the iso to boot. I'm past that part - I've got as far as installing the system, but grub just refuses to complete and it leaves the installed OS in a pretty broken state (if I force boot into the OS via hacky means, it has no user and various things are not configured)Basically my steps are as follows:Download ubuntu mate LTS (I've tried both 24.X, 25.X)Create WRITEABLE, bootable usb in order to add 32-bit efi via mounting the iso, copying all of the files to a fat32 usb and then running syslinux on the usbI then copy my own bootia32.efi into EFI/boot, and can use the BIOS to boot into a "UEFI: Sandisk" entry that takes me straight into Ubuntu Mate. (I thought booting into a UEFI entry was supposed to prevent the issues I'm seeing below?)I can then start installing Ubuntu MateI go through the installer, and choose to wipe the entire driveThe install seems to very nearly complete, but at the end I get an error to do with GRUB installing: "grub-install: error: /usr/lib/grub/i386-pc/modinfo.sh doesn't exist. Please specify --target or --directory.". I think the specific command that leads to this error is something like: Command: ['unshare', '--fork', '--pid', '--mount-proc=/target/proc', '--', 'chroot', '/target', '/usr/lib/grub/grub-multi-install']. grub-install then attempts to install to /boot/efi, and gives the i386-pc/modinfo.sh doesn't exist error.The i386-pc folder (and hence modinfo.sh and various other files) do not exist unless I do a "sudo apt install grub-pc-bin" prior to beginning the install, however this makes no difference and the install fails with the same errorSome limited investigation leads me to believe it's not even correct that grub is using these files, as it indicates a non-uefi install? My understanding is that I need 32-bit uefi, and NOT legacyI even tried to hack the i386-pc folder into the /target mount a few minutes after install has started via symlink, to no avail - it seems like it might be trying to pick it up from some other location (the squashfs?) and failing, although I can't determine where I could potentially place the correct files from the logs.Some notes:Secure boot is off (to be fair it doesn't seem to make a difference whether this is on or not)I can't change UEFI / legacy in the bios - it seems the option is totally missingInstalling a recent Fedora version works fine and is bootable, but the desktop environments they provide are not really usable - even their own version of Mate is pretty unusable in comparison to Ubuntu's (I can get it to boot, however). KDE / gnome are absolute no goes - so heavy on the tablet that I can't get through the installAny help would be appreciated, I know this is a long post, thanksedit:after all this messing around, I was trying to find a way to install ubuntu without the installer installing the bootloader - but it seems like this is not (yet?) possible with the new installer ever since 24.04 -see hereat time of this post, 22.04 LTS is the only previous version that still has support (until June 2027), and uses the old installer which apparently supports something like: sudo ubiquity -b (or --no-bootloader)... however I noticed that this version of ubuntu already has the grub files present in /usr/lib/grub/i386-pc, so I just ran the installer through normally.everything seemed to be going well until I then ran into:"Grub fails installation with: failed to register the EFI boot entry: Input/Output error"Solution: ENABLE secure bootthen, everything seemed to be going well until I then ran into:"cannot delete efi variable 0004"Solution: "sudo efibootmgr -b 4 -B" prior to fresh install (this was an old entry for ubuntu)Re-ran the install (yet again) and it finally finished on its own... kinda frustrating, but I got there in the end. I think those last 2 are just crappy UEFI firmware. After the install finished there was only a 64bit bootloader, which obviously won't work, so manually re-installed the 32-bit bootloader via:remove extra ubuntu boot entries:sudo efibootmgr -b X -Bsudo -imount /dev/mmcblk1p2 /mntmount /dev/mmcblk1p1 /mnt/boot/efiapt updateapt remove --allow-remove-essential shim-signedapt install grub-efi-ia32 grub-efi-ia32-binrm -rf /mnt/boot/efi/EFI/ubuntugrub-install --boot-directory=/mnt/boot --bootloader-id=ubuntu --target=i386-efi --efi-directory=/mnt/boot/eficheck that 32bit bootloader files are in /mnt/boot/efi/EFI/ubuntureboot and alter bios settings to boot into grubbooting into grub should work, and you should have the ubuntu entry which takes you straight into ubuntuI'll leave this here in case it helps someone out, and hopefully the new ubunutu installer will be fixed / have a no bootloader option by next year so that newer versions are also able to be fresh installed (even if it comes to installing the bootloader manually after the fact)
How to set up WSL2 with GNOME? A duplicated question How to set up WSL2 with GNOME? A duplicated questionu/Remote-Issue-7842•15 days agoHow to set up WSL2 with GNOME? A duplicated questionThis is a duplicate question asked by many other people.I'm now working on PyCharm/VSCode + WSL/SSH setup. Works fine, but I want to get a backup plan in case I need to work with a desktop for the Ubuntu demonstration.I've been browsing GitHub and Windows Documentation to set up an environment for Windows 11 and GNOME. I'm familiar with working on GitHub default desktop, but the thing is most of the blogs are outdated.References:https://gist.github.com/b23prodtm/36e4ebd9f9481a84008e6b617ba9c081https://askubuntu.com/questions/1432937/how-to-install-gnome-for-ubuntu-22-04-on-wsl2And others similar that has a script:wsl2-setup-desktop-gnome.shAccording to ChatGPT and Grok, most of the setups are now outdated. And their answer is not working well.Are there any posts that still work and can be tested? Much appreciated.
why do i keep getting this bash error and why cant i fix it why do i keep getting this bash error and why cant i fix itu/SciCrafter•1 hr. agowhy do i keep getting this bash error and why cant i fix iti know why its there but i cant remove it. its a syntax error complaining about line 508. i made by mistake its a blank line and it wont go away. even if i delete the line and save
Worth it? Worth it?u/giquo•5 days agoWorth it?
strange network behaviour strange network behaviouru/tradeandpray•8 hr. agostrange network behaviourI didn't have this problem with Debian 12 Gnome. When I got my new laptop and installed Debian 13 Gnome, I could no longer have multiple physical network cards active at the same time. When I turn on one network card, the other network card is automatically turned off. When I set static addresses for one network card, these values are also set for the other network card.Thanks for the ideas
debian debianu/DayInfinite8322•25 days agodebian
Update broke my nvidia driver  -> vmlinuz-6.12.69+deb13-amd64 Update broke my nvidia driver  -> vmlinuz-6.12.69+deb13-amd64u/Randall-Flagg6•11 hr. agoUpdate broke my nvidia driver  -> vmlinuz-6.12.69+deb13-amd64Hello,the recend update, i assume it was from 6.12.63 to 6.12.69, broke my nvidia drivers and thus, GNOME wont start.Now i have no idea on how to fix it, i can start it just fine on the 6.12.63 kernel, but how do i fix the drivers on the other kernel, or how do i review the boot logs of the broken kernel in order to see whats actually broken?I just saw the red and somethingsomething nvidia flying by during boot...
Rate my debian gaming setup Rate my debian gaming setupu/heakysnictodr•5 days agoRate my debian gaming setup
Run full gui debain in mobile any tips Run full gui debain in mobile any tipsu/OptimalObjective6333•23 hr. agoRun full gui debain in mobile any tips
BUG - sorting in the file manager Nautilus BUG - sorting in the file manager Nautilusu/princepii•11 hr. agoBUG - sorting in the file manager Nautilusdebian 13 - gnome 48 - wayland - fw 1.9.1 - 64bitIst that normal that if i click on one of the tabs like file name, date or size, that the file manager puts me either way down to the bottom or way up to the top, where u then have to scroll all the way manually?is there maybe a setting i can change or why is that even happening?it is really annoying if you have thousands of files and are most of the time with the trackpad or mouse and have to use keys if you wanna go up or down with shortcuts.
I installed Linux on my school computer (debian based btw:3) I installed Linux on my school computer (debian based btw:3)u/PotentialAd2486•8 days agoI installed Linux on my school computer (debian based btw:3)
DEBIAN BEST DISTRO EVER, celebrating a victory DEBIAN BEST DISTRO EVER, celebrating a victoryu/giquo•1 day agoDEBIAN BEST DISTRO EVER, celebrating a victoryHey, is just me celebrating that I manage to configure a couple of VPNs to work simultaneously on Debian, I was doing it wrong, somehow I installed resolvectl or something like that, and after reading several documentations, Pritunl, Debian, etc. I saw that I could use the Gnome integrated openvpn.Long (very long... days long story short) is up, is very up and working as is intended to, as Windows does, as Linux Mint does, and it was because I installed the wrong DNS resolver.Best distro, lots of love to Debian
Debian has the best Nvidia experience I've ever had, and is rarely talked about Debian has the best Nvidia experience I've ever had, and is rarely talked aboutu/01Destroyer•1 day agoDebian has the best Nvidia experience I've ever had, and is rarely talked about
Just switched from Arch to Debian, any immediate suggestions? Just switched from Arch to Debian, any immediate suggestions?u/markmarkovich•1 day agoJust switched from Arch to Debian, any immediate suggestions?I had an old laptop for 5 years and used KDE Arch on it for last 3-4 months of it's life. Now I have a new cooler PC which was loaded with windows 11. I "upgraded" to windows 10 for specific game support and decided to dual boot it with Debian, because trying to install arch without chatGPT (the first time I did use chatGPT) was a really tedious experience. I chose Debian on KDE because I'm used to KDE and decided that Debian is better for me than Ubuntu.
[DESKTOP] Everybody gangsta with their terminal emulators, untill you pull out an actual physical terminal [DESKTOP] Everybody gangsta with their terminal emulators, untill you pull out an actual physical terminalu/LionyxML•6 days ago[DESKTOP] Everybody gangsta with their terminal emulators, untill you pull out an actual physical terminal[DESKTOP] Everybody gangsta with their terminal emulators, untill you pull out an actual physical terminalr/unixporn•6 days ago[DESKTOP] Everybody gangsta with their terminal emulators, untill you pull out an actual physical terminal2.2Kupvotes·82comments
Anyone know how to get ArcMenu and Dash to Panel to auto switch between lite/dark modes? Anyone know how to get ArcMenu and Dash to Panel to auto switch between lite/dark modes?u/raderator•1 day agoAnyone know how to get ArcMenu and Dash to Panel to auto switch between lite/dark modes?Debian 13 Gnome. I installed the Legacy Switcher extension which works on programs but not on those. Tried two AIs but no luck, as usual. So I made it transparent black.It's the one thing that doesn't work in my attempt to make a better Zorin/Anduin.
debian (antix) on my 22 year old daily laptop debian (antix) on my 22 year old daily laptopu/TYMi01•8 days agodebian (antix) on my 22 year old daily laptop
I feel like I've come back home I feel like I've come back homeu/dying_animal•12 days agoI feel like I've come back home
Detecting network error while installing debian 13 into acer swift go 16 Detecting network error while installing debian 13 into acer swift go 16u/Flaky_Case3665•1 day agoDetecting network error while installing debian 13 into acer swift go 16I was installing the debian 13 into my local machine . My laptop uses the wifi 7 which is the newest version. But debian 13 uses wifi 6 driver . So what i need to do to fix that, is it possible to install driver to match them
After many years of Windows, today I finally switched to what I hope will be my forever distro After many years of Windows, today I finally switched to what I hope will be my forever distrou/green_meklar•11 days agoAfter many years of Windows, today I finally switched to what I hope will be my forever distro
Can Trixie be installed with Budgie 10.10? Can Trixie be installed with Budgie 10.10?u/No_Neighborhood_8896•1 day agoCan Trixie be installed with Budgie 10.10?Hello folks. I'm aware that Budgie isn't an option, but there are packages in the repos.My doubt is: I'm simply not confident I can install standard Debian and then swap Gnome/KDE/whatever for Budgie without breaking anything.Is it possible that the netinstaller, perhaps, would allow me to install it with Budgie as my desktop? Couldn't find anything about which desktop environments were available in the netinstaller, but since Budgie is available in repos and there's even a page for it in the Debian Wiki... I thought to ask you guys about it!Please, give me tips.I'm giving up on the distro in my laptop and I thought about going to Debian, but having Budgie as my desktop is a must for me. It simply works too well for my taste and my uses and makes every simple hardware feel like a premium machine.
Can't open Software & Updates (GNOME) Can't open Software & Updates (GNOME)u/rmn_trllr•1 day agoCan't open Software & Updates (GNOME)This is that the log tells me:19:11:27 software-proper: FileNotFoundError: [Errno 2] Datei oder Verzeichnis nicht gefunden: '/usr/bin/apt-key'19:11:27 software-proper: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^19:11:27 software-proper:self.pid= os.posix_spawn(executable, args, env, **kwargs)19:11:27 software-proper: File "/usr/lib/python3.13/subprocess.py", line 1801, in _posix_spawn19:11:27 software-proper: ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^19:11:27 software-proper: errread, errwrite)19:11:27 software-proper: ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^19:11:27 software-proper: c2pread, c2pwrite,19:11:27 software-proper: ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^19:11:27 software-proper: p2cread, p2cwrite,19:11:27 software-proper: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^19:11:27 software-proper: self._posix_spawn(args, executable, env, restore_signals, close_fds,19:11:27 software-proper: File "/usr/lib/python3.13/subprocess.py", line 1857, in _execute_child19:11:27 software-proper: ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^19:11:27 software-proper: start_new_session, process_group)19:11:27 software-proper: ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^19:11:27 software-proper: gid, gids, uid, umask,19:11:27 software-proper: ...<5 lines>...19:11:27 software-proper: ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^19:11:27 software-proper: pass_fds, cwd, env,19:11:27 software-proper: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^19:11:27 software-proper: self._execute_child(args, executable, preexec_fn, close_fds,19:11:27 software-proper: File "/usr/lib/python3.13/subprocess.py", line 1039, in __init__19:11:27 software-proper: ~~~~~^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^19:11:27 software-proper: with Popen(*popenargs, **kwargs) as process:19:11:27 software-proper: File "/usr/lib/python3.13/subprocess.py", line 554, in run19:11:27 software-proper: process = subprocess.run(cmd, stdout=PIPE, stderr=PIPE, text=True)19:11:27 software-proper: File "/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/softwareproperties/AptAuth.py", line 59, in list19:11:27 software-proper: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^19:11:27 software-proper: for key in self.apt_key.list():19:11:27 software-proper: File "/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/softwareproperties/gtk/SoftwarePropertiesGtk.py", line 1078, in show_keys19:11:27 software-proper: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^19:11:27 software-proper: self.show_keys()19:11:27 software-proper: File "/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/softwareproperties/gtk/SoftwarePropertiesGtk.py", line 243, in __init__19:11:27 software-proper: app = SoftwarePropertiesGtk(datadir=options.data_dir, options=options, file=file)19:11:27 software-proper: File "/usr/bin/software-properties-gtk", line 100, in <module>19:11:27 software-proper: Traceback (most recent call last):19:11:27 systemd: Started app-gnome-software\x2dproperties\x2dgtk-28823.scope - Application
Debian spotted at Moscow metro Debian spotted at Moscow metrou/Any-Football-5335•27 days agoDebian spotted at Moscow metro
My minimal and clean Debian + XFCE setup! My minimal and clean Debian + XFCE setup!u/MathildaAdenauer•27 days agoMy minimal and clean Debian + XFCE setup!
Where to put the folder of a compiled app? Where to put the folder of a compiled app?u/rmn_trllr•13 hr. agoWhere to put the folder of a compiled app?I've just compiled my first app. :D Where should the folder go after you have finished compiling? My other apps (Reaper and wine-stable) are in /opt, but of course they are not compiled. Is there a secret rule for this?
Debian Stable+Backports; Suggestions pls Debian Stable+Backports; Suggestions plsu/linuxhacker01•2 days agoDebian Stable+Backports; Suggestions plsHi folks, I'm using Debian Stable atm and considering backports option for few packages. My hardware is currently from late 2022 and no proprietary whatsoever, AMD fyi except mediatek wifi card.I want to keep my system in a state of semi rolling state not exactly testing yet keeping fewer packages new. In this regard, I'm deciding if keeping backported of kernel-* and firmware-* safe for my system or not. They both would be set to 600 priority if decided.Additionally, Libreoffice, pipewire is also my option.The setup looks good? Alongside, I'm eager to hear your suggestions/corrections too. Also if members can share their backport list, that will greatly help me. Thanks
Tested Raspi cloud images? Tested Raspi cloud images?u/jodkalemon•2 days agoTested Raspi cloud images?https://raspi.debian.net/has been superseded byhttps://cloud.debian.org/images/cloud/Has someone already tested the Raspi cloud images?
How i mount it without using my password every time? How i mount it without using my password every time?u/ShiningLightShadow•2 days agoHow i mount it without using my password every time?So, i hace this partition, and i want it to mount automatically when i boot my system, but it always ask me for my password.How can i take that appart?(My /etc/fstab )
Debian 13 (trixie) hangs up during boot after Kernel update (from 6.12.63 to 6.12.69) Debian 13 (trixie) hangs up during boot after Kernel update (from 6.12.63 to 6.12.69)u/atomicBRblaster•2 days agoDebian 13 (trixie) hangs up during boot after Kernel update (from 6.12.63 to 6.12.69)Hi there guys,I'm running a i7-3770k 16GB RAM RTX 3060 TI 12GB with the NVIDIA Proprietary Driver.During the boot, sadly I can't track exacly where it stops, but it seems to be something related to GPU cuz of "GNOME Window Manager" mention.It stucks in a black screen with the blinking cursor.I couldn't check the failed boot logs (sudo systemctl -b >> boot.log.txt gave me only the last successful boot), but it started normally with the older 6.12.63 kernel.Does anyone know what it could be and how to solve it?Thanks a lot for your help and patience!
First time using Linux First time using Linuxu/bikiwlaster40•2 days agoFirst time using Linux
My Xfce4 Debian Desktop My Xfce4 Debian Desktopu/matrixisme_1•19 days agoMy Xfce4 Debian Desktop
Pixel 3a XL Mobian stuck in Busybox/initramfs after 6gb of updates Pixel 3a XL Mobian stuck in Busybox/initramfs after 6gb of updatesu/machintodesu•2 days agoPixel 3a XL Mobian stuck in Busybox/initramfs after 6gb of updatesToday was literally my first day with my SIM card in attempting to use it as a primary device (I installed Mobian back in November after extensive distro hopping) and it now fails to boot after installing updates over lunch. My keyboard wouldn't pair and I imagine I'm not far enough into the boot sequence for ssh, but I can't test it for another 3 hours. The updates included some MESA and freedesktop stuff so I imagine that's what broke it.
Getting rid of windows on a modern system? Getting rid of windows on a modern system?u/jackmclrtz•15 hr. agoGetting rid of windows on a modern system?I have an alienware laptop that of course came with Win11 on it, which of course just needs to go away.Before getting rid of it, I shrunk win11 and installed Debian to run a bunch of tests before getting into the final install.I am about ready to do that, but the partitioning is confusing. I am from the before-times when all there was was BIOS. Now we have UEFI which uses a partition so that attackers can install malware, I get that. But, that leaves a lot of partitions left over.Below is lsblk on this laptop. 7 & 8 are my Debian install. 1 is the UEFI partition. 3 is the C: drive. What are 2, 4, 5, and 6? If I reinstall, can I just delete partitions 2-8? I don't want to delete something that will brick the system..NAME MAJ:MIN RM SIZE RO TYPE MOUNTPOINTSnvme0n1 259:0 0 3.7T 0 disk├─nvme0n1p1 259:1 0 200M 0 part /boot/efi├─nvme0n1p2 259:2 0 128M 0 part├─nvme0n1p3 259:3 0 1.9T 0 part├─nvme0n1p4 259:4 0 1.2G 0 part├─nvme0n1p5 259:5 0 22.8G 0 part├─nvme0n1p6 259:6 0 1.6G 0 part├─nvme0n1p7 259:7 0 954M 0 part /boot└─nvme0n1p8 259:8 0 1.8T 0 part└─nvme0n1p8_crypt 254:0 0 1.8T 0 crypt├─rootvg-swap 254:1 0 119.2G 0 lvm [SWAP]└─rootvg-root 254:2 0 1.7T 0 lvm /
Cinnamon in Debian Cinnamon in Debianu/LonelyMachines•18 days agoCinnamon in Debian
Python3 error when I try to add the official Libretro/RetroArch PPA Python3 error when I try to add the official Libretro/RetroArch PPAu/rmn_trllr•3 days agoPython3 error when I try to add the official Libretro/RetroArch PPA
Looking for help: Packaging a Rust-based mp3gain replacement for Debian (ITP #1126519) Looking for help: Packaging a Rust-based mp3gain replacement for Debian (ITP #1126519)u/Independent-Car-1560•2 days agoLooking for help: Packaging a Rust-based mp3gain replacement for Debian (ITP #1126519)Hi everyone,I'm the developer ofmp3rgain, a lossless MP3/AAC volume normalizer written in Rust. It's a modern, memory-safe reimplementation of the classicmp3gaintool with full CLI compatibility (drop-in replacement).I've filed an ITP (#1126519) and would love to get mp3rgain into the official Debian repositories, but I'm not a Debian Developer/Maintainer and this is my first time going through the official packaging process. I'm looking for guidance or collaboration from someone experienced with Debian packaging — ideally someone familiar with the Rust packaging workflow (debcargo).Why this might be worth packaging:The existingmp3gainpackage in Debian hasknown unpatched security vulnerabilitiesincluding CVE-2023-49356 (stack buffer overflow)mp3rgain is written in Rust, providing memory safety guarantees against these classes of vulnerabilitiesMIT licensed (DFSG-compliant)Actively maintained — latest release isv1.6.0(Feb 2026)Pre-built .deb packages are already available on GitHub ReleasesMan page includedWhat I've done so far:Submitted the ITP and CC'ddebian-rust@lists.debian.orgReached out to the currentmp3gainDebian maintainer (no response yet)Set upcargo-debconfiguration and .deb build in CITested .deb installation on Debian/UbuntuWhat I'm looking for:A Debian Developer or Maintainer willing to sponsor/mentor the packageAdvice on setting updebcargo-conffor the official packaging pipelineGeneral guidance on navigating the Debian NEW queue processI'm happy to do the work — I just need someone who knows the process to point me in the right direction. If you're interested or know someone who might be, please reach out here or on theGitHub issue.Thank you for reading!
What made you use Debian? What made you use Debian?u/CoolDragon•4 days agoWhat made you use Debian?
Just upgraded to Debian 13 Just upgraded to Debian 13u/ThenotoriousBIT•2 days agoJust upgraded to Debian 13
Speed reduction with MT7922 Speed reduction with MT7922u/Plenty-Package-3809•2 days agoSpeed reduction with MT7922I bought a Wi-Fi adapter with the model number MT7922, but even with power saving disabled, I'm only getting half the internet speed I'm supposed to get. What should I do? I'm on Debian 13 Trixie 6.12.69.
Day in a life of a ex MacOS user pt4 Day in a life of a ex MacOS user pt4u/JohnConnoor•3 days agoDay in a life of a ex MacOS user pt4Well...I tried switching from gnome after a few issues with tilling software and also to save more on graphics resources (not that the machine really needs it) just feeling nostalgic about the old UIs, surprisingly the machine was less responsive with XFCE, programs lacked the snappy response, Firefox was slower to open and load content than on the gnome desktop, CPU was also more intensive, memory on the other hand was perfect less than a gig. Eventually I returned to gnome so far still running strong with Debian!
Just wondering, is there any catch on using Flatpaks over time? Just wondering, is there any catch on using Flatpaks over time?u/giquo•6 days agoJust wondering, is there any catch on using Flatpaks over time?
Security and speed improvements are on the way for network manager Security and speed improvements are on the way for network manageru/Itchy_Ruin_352•3 days agoSecurity and speed improvements are on the way for network managerSecurity and speed improvements are on the way for network managerr/linuxmint•3 days agoSecurity and speed improvements are on the way for network managerYay!The long-awaited support for 6GHz Wi-Fi now seems to be coming to Network Manager 1.56*https://gitlab.freedesktop.org/NetworkManager/NetworkManager/-/commit/9199c56f505703cb5451c44bb7107db8c62f9bd1What is this good for?* In the 6GHz band, only WIFI7 support, i.e. WPA3 among other things, was implemented as standard. This means that inexperienced users cannot select an insecure mode such as WPA2, nor should attackers be able to successfully carry out downgrade attacks in this frequency band.* Experience shows that the 6 GHz frequency band is usually completely empty and unused.It is possible that a few other noticeable GUI errors in the network manager will also be fixed in the future.Let us look ahead.12upvotes·1comment
Debian Secure Boot causes unimportant "error: secure boot policy violation" Debian Secure Boot causes unimportant "error: secure boot policy violation"u/RACeldrith•4 days agoDebian Secure Boot causes unimportant "error: secure boot policy violation"So I have secure boot enabled and working, however on every boot you see "error: secure boot policy violation" on the screen for a second.The same error can be reproduced with the GRUB-CMD with: "videoinfo".How can I debug this and possibly fix this, its more aesthetics I know but I want this error ironed out!Thanks in advance.
Kde rice Kde riceu/OptimalObjective6333•5 days agoKde rice
Debian 13 random freezes Debian 13 random freezesu/x880609•9 days agoDebian 13 random freezesHello.I've updated to Debian 13 after running Debian 12 with no problems for 2 years. However, - and after using it for some time now -, my Debian 13 build in a span of a week has frozen 3 times, with audio stuttering. Completely frozen, not even a REISUB would reboot it, only a hard reboot.$ sudo journalctl -b -1 -p errkernel: i915 0000:00:02.0: [drm] *ERROR* Atomic update failure on pipe A (start=9876 end=9877) time 291 us, min 1073, max 1079, scanline start 1072, end 1092~Thank you.Edit: SPECSCPU: Intel(R) Core(TM) i5-8250U (8) @ 3.40 GHzGPU: Intel UHD Graphics 620 @ 1.10 GHz [Integrated]Memory: 8.59 GiB / 23.38 GiB (37%)Swap: 0 B / 12.30 GiB (0%)
Question regarding DNS and Static IP in Debian Trixie Question regarding DNS and Static IP in Debian Trixieu/Busy_Cancel_4945•10 days agoQuestion regarding DNS and Static IP in Debian Trixie[SOLVED] Read in the end of the main postTL;DR: A fresh install without DE uses dhcpcd-base (via hooks) instead of the full dhcpcd daemon, NetworkManager or other dhcp client systemts.-----Hi, I’d like to raise a question because I’ve been having some "silly" networking issues after upgrading to Debian 13.I have several VMs without a Desktop Environment (DE), installed via netinstall.In Debian 12, I used to simply edit `/etc/network/interfaces` with something like this:allow-hotplug ens18 iface ens18 inet static address 10.10.110.22 netmask 255.255.255.0 gateway 10.10.110.1 nameserver 1.1.1.1(Also tried with `dns-nameserver` `dns-nameservers` and `nameservers`)And it worked in Bookworm. Now, with Debian Trixie, it switches to the new IP, but after a while, the `/etc/resolv.conf` file gets overwritten and my DNS servers are deleted, leaving me with something like this:$ cat /etc/resolv.conf # Generated by dhcpcd # /etc/resolv.conf.head can replace this line # /etc/resolv.conf.tail can replace this lineI'm confused. It doesn't seem like I have dhcpcd running, or at least I don't know how to find it.I've taken a look at the Debian Wiki (https://wiki.debian.org/NetworkConfiguration), but English is not my primary language and I'm having some trouble understanding everything.How can I find out what is overwriting my resolv.conf? Whether it's dhcpcd, NetworkManager, systemd-resolved, etc.?These are clean installations without a DE. In Debian Bookworm, it always worked just by using /etc/network/interfaces, and I don't have any unusual network configurations.For now, I've managed by using: sudo chattr +i /etc/resolv.confBut that’s just a "dirty fix" because I don't really understand what’s happening. If someone could point me in the right direction, I would be very grateful.Apologies if my English isn't perfect, as I had to use some translation tools to help me out.----[UPDATE] [SOLVED]After some investigation, I discovered that the issue was caused bydhcpcd-baseusing hooks instead of the traditionaldhcpcddaemon, NetworkManager, orresolvconf. To fix it, I disabled theresolv.confhook and added the DNS servers manually.Do not use dns settings in /etc/network/interfacesdisable dhcpcd resolv.conf hookecho "nohook resolv.conf" | sudo tee -a /etc/dhcpcd.confadd nameservers in resolv.confecho "nameserver 1.1.1.1" | sudo tee -a /etc/resolv.conf.head# To add in the head of filereload networkingsystemctl restart networking.serviceProof of work:user@debian13-tty:~$ tail /etc/network/interfaces # The loopback network interface auto lo iface lo inet loopback # The primary network interface allow-hotplug ens18 iface ens18 inet static address 172.16.1.78/24 #ip not applied yet gateway 172.16.1.1  user@debian13-tty:~$ ip a | grep 'inet ' inet 127.0.0.1/8 scope host lo inet 172.16.1.131/24 brd 172.16.1.255 scope global dynamic noprefixroute ens18  user@debian13-tty:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf # Generated by dhcpcd from ens18.dhcp # /etc/resolv.conf.head can replace this line domain localdomain nameserver 172.16.1.1 # /etc/resolv.conf.tail can replace this line  user@debian13-tty:~$ echo "nohook resolv.conf" | sudo tee -a /etc/dhcpcd.conf nohook resolv.conf  user@debian13-tty:~$ echo "nameserver 1.1.1.1" | sudo tee -a /etc/resolv.conf.head nameserver 1.1.1.1  user@debian13-tty:~$ sudo systemctl restart networking.service  user@debian13-tty:~$ ip a | grep 'inet ' inet 127.0.0.1/8 scope host lo inet 172.16.1.78/24 brd 172.16.1.255 scope global ens18  user@debian13-tty:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf # Generated by dhcpcd nameserver 1.1.1.1 # /etc/resolv.conf.tail can replace this lineuser@debian13-tty:~$
nvidia secondary monitor headache nvidia secondary monitor headacheu/giquo•11 days agonvidia secondary monitor headache[SOLVED]Hi y'allI'm having a bad time configuring an nvidia card, bcus I follow up the Debian guide to install the driver, and now I can see the GPU activity (opposite when using the nouveau driver) but now I cannot use the secondary display monitor aside the laptop one.The thing is: this laptop has an AMD Ryzen 7 4800H with it's integrated graphics, and an NVIDIA GTX 1650.When I connect the monitor I can see the monitor being recognized on Gnome Settings, but is not rendering anything, it doesn't even show on the screens minimap.tried with xandr commands but all I get is errors.A little help would be appreciated, thanks
I like simplicity. (Just another pointless desktop screenshot...) I like simplicity. (Just another pointless desktop screenshot...)u/guillaje•1 mo. agoI like simplicity. (Just another pointless desktop screenshot...)
Using 2 nics with 2 networks Using 2 nics with 2 networksu/grimnar•10 days agoUsing 2 nics with 2 networksHello everyoneI have debian 13 running at work where it's running librenms on a 192.168.0.0/24 network with no internett access.There is also another network based on 10.10.0.0/24 where I can access the internet. This is connected via usb-c static network. Now, there should be internet on this network but I cannot get it to work and I think it as to do with routing. There has been some googling to this issue but I get confused pretty quick! How can I get routing to internet working and routing to the lan (192.168.0.0/24 working correctly?This is my current /etc/network/interfaces# The loopback network interface auto lo iface lo inet loopback   auto enp2s0  iface enp2s0 inet static  address 192.168.90.151  gateway 192.168.90.1  dns-nameservers 1.1.1.1  #usb-c  auto eth2 iface eth2 inet dhcp dns-nameservers 1.1.1.1When I try to ping site.com I get thisTemporary failure in name resolutionSo Debian does not understand internet comes from the 10.10.0.0/24 network then?To sum up: Internet should be on eth2 and lan on enp2s0 onlyAnd for good measure this is my /etc/resolv.conf# Generated by dhcpcd from eth2.dhcp # /etc/resolv.conf.head can replace this line nameserver 8.8.8.8 nameserver 8.8.4.4 # /etc/resolv.conf.tail can replace this line
Got Debian 31 Gnome up and running on a 12 year old Chromeboook with 15GB storage and 2GB RAM Got Debian 31 Gnome up and running on a 12 year old Chromeboook with 15GB storage and 2GB RAMu/LastNameHooke•1 mo. agoGot Debian 31 Gnome up and running on a 12 year old Chromeboook with 15GB storage and 2GB RAM
2012 Macbook Pro wifi? 2012 Macbook Pro wifi?u/Disastrous_Hawktuah•11 days ago2012 Macbook Pro wifi?I cannot for the life of me seem to get wifi drivers working on trixie. Does anyone know a method?
No matter how many times I distro hop, I keep coming back to Debian No matter how many times I distro hop, I keep coming back to Debianu/maria_birds3•9 days agoNo matter how many times I distro hop, I keep coming back to Debian
iPhone 8 Plus UTM iPhone 8 Plus UTMu/Agzinc•1 day agoiPhone 8 Plus UTM
switched from soy ubuntu to based debian switched from soy ubuntu to based debianu/tokyohardrock333•23 days agoswitched from soy ubuntu to based debian
Someone's monitor has been improved Someone's monitor has been improvedu/Sataniel98•4 days agoSomeone's monitor has been improvedSomeone smashed the monitor and it creates golden ratior/pcmasterrace•4 days agoSomeone smashed the monitor and it creates golden ratio43Kupvotes·839comments
My debian  Desktop My debian  Desktopu/Windows_1999_•21 days agoMy debian  Desktop
Unable to install wine Unable to install wineu/Camo6421•11 days agoUnable to install wine
I missed Debian so much :sob: I missed Debian so much :sob:u/vaffanchulo•25 days agoI missed Debian so much :sob:
3ds Linux kinda slacking 3ds Linux kinda slackingu/Beginning_Market2311•19 days ago3ds Linux kinda slacking
My KDE Setup My KDE Setupu/Kindly_Cut980•3 days agoMy KDE Setup
may the debian gods never push gnome 49 in the stable repos, inshallah. may the debian gods never push gnome 49 in the stable repos, inshallah.u/antiqueOCEAN•18 hr. agomay the debian gods never push gnome 49 in the stable repos, inshallah.it sucks.p.s. I used to use arch btw.had to change distro because of gnome 49 crashing and making my life miserable.
minimal debian 13 / xfce4 minimal debian 13 / xfce4u/jdreamboat•7 days agominimal debian 13 / xfce4
Weird network issue. Weird network issue.u/Away-Software7116•20 hr. agoWeird network issue.
Kde rice Kde riceu/OptimalObjective6333•5 days agoKde rice
Apparmor failure after Debian update Apparmor failure after Debian updateu/194668PT•12 days agoApparmor failure after Debian updateAnyone else having this issue? What did you do to fix it if anything?---------X@debian:~$ systemctl status apparmor.service× apparmor.service - Load AppArmor profilesLoaded: loaded (/usr/lib/systemd/system/apparmor.service; enabled; preset: enabled)Active: failed (Result: exit-code) since Sun 2026-02-01 19:48:50 PST; 28s agoInvocation: 68b826fe1519434b9eec92038b6077a4Docs: man:apparmor(7)https://gitlab.com/apparmor/apparmor/wikis/home/Process: 1494 ExecStart=/lib/apparmor/apparmor.systemd reload (code=exited, status=1/FAILURE)Main PID: 1494 (code=exited, status=1/FAILURE)Mem peak: 13MCPU: 148msWarning: some journal files were not opened due to insufficient permissions.X@debian:~$ ^Cstemctl status apparmor.serviceX@debian:~$ sudo systemctl status apparmor.service --no-pager -lsudo journalctl -u apparmor.service -b --no-pager -n 200[sudo] password for X:× apparmor.service - Load AppArmor profilesLoaded: loaded (/usr/lib/systemd/system/apparmor.service; enabled; preset: enabled)Active: failed (Result: exit-code) since Sun 2026-02-01 19:48:50 PST; 1h 24min agoInvocation: 68b826fe1519434b9eec92038b6077a4Docs: man:apparmor(7)https://gitlab.com/apparmor/apparmor/wikis/home/Process: 1494 ExecStart=/lib/apparmor/apparmor.systemd reload (code=exited, status=1/FAILURE)Main PID: 1494 (code=exited, status=1/FAILURE)Mem peak: 13MCPU: 148msFeb 01 19:48:50 debian systemd[1]: Starting apparmor.service - Load AppArmor profiles...Feb 01 19:48:50 debian apparmor.systemd[1494]: Restarting AppArmorFeb 01 19:48:50 debian apparmor.systemd[1494]: Reloading AppArmor profilesFeb 01 19:48:50 debian apparmor.systemd[1545]: AppArmor parser error for /etc/apparmor.d in profile /etc/apparmor.d/tunables/home at line 15: syntax error, unexpected TOK_EQUALS, expecting TOK_MODEFeb 01 19:48:50 debian apparmor.systemd[1608]: Skipping profile in /etc/apparmor.d/disable: usr.bin.thunderbirdFeb 01 19:48:50 debian apparmor.systemd[1494]: Error: At least one profile failed to loadFeb 01 19:48:50 debian systemd[1]: apparmor.service: Main process exited, code=exited, status=1/FAILUREFeb 01 19:48:50 debian systemd[1]: apparmor.service: Failed with result 'exit-code'.Feb 01 19:48:50 debian systemd[1]: Failed to start apparmor.service - Load AppArmor profiles.Feb 01 19:48:50 debian systemd[1]: Starting apparmor.service - Load AppArmor profiles...Feb 01 19:48:50 debian apparmor.systemd[1494]: Restarting AppArmorFeb 01 19:48:50 debian apparmor.systemd[1494]: Reloading AppArmor profilesFeb 01 19:48:50 debian apparmor.systemd[1545]: AppArmor parser error for /etc/apparmor.d in profile /etc/apparmor.d/tunables/home at line 15: syntax error, unexpected TOK_EQUALS, expecting TOK_MODEFeb 01 19:48:50 debian apparmor.systemd[1608]: Skipping profile in /etc/apparmor.d/disable: usr.bin.thunderbirdFeb 01 19:48:50 debian apparmor.systemd[1494]: Error: At least one profile failed to loadFeb 01 19:48:50 debian systemd[1]: apparmor.service: Main process exited, code=exited, status=1/FAILUREFeb 01 19:48:50 debian systemd[1]: apparmor.service: Failed with result 'exit-code'.Feb 01 19:48:50 debian systemd[1]: Failed to start apparmor.service - Load AppArmor profiles.X@debian:~$ sudo journalctl -u apparmor.service -b --no-pager -o catStarting apparmor.service - Load AppArmor profiles...Restarting AppArmorReloading AppArmor profilesAppArmor parser error for /etc/apparmor.d in profile /etc/apparmor.d/tunables/home at line 15: syntax error, unexpected TOK_EQUALS, expecting TOK_MODESkipping profile in /etc/apparmor.d/disable: usr.bin.thunderbirdError: At least one profile failed to loadapparmor.service: Main process exited, code=exited, status=1/FAILUREapparmor.service: Failed with result 'exit-code'.Failed to start apparmor.service - Load AppArmor profiles.X@debian:~$ sudo nl -ba /etc/apparmor.d/tunables/home | sed -n '1,60p'1	# ------------------------------------------------------------------2	#3	#    Copyright (C) 2006-2009 Novell/SUSE4	#    Copyright (C) 2010 Canonical Ltd.5	#6	#    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or7	#    modify it under the terms of version 2 of the GNU General Public8	#    License published by the Free Software Foundation.9	#10	# ------------------------------------------------------------------1112	# @{HOMEDIRS} is a space-separated list of where user home directories13	# are stored, for programs that must enumerate all home directories on a14	# system.15	@{HOMEDIRS}=/home/1617	# @{HOME} is a space-separated list of all user home directories. While18	# it doesn't refer to a specific home directory (AppArmor doesn't19	# enforce discretionary access controls) it can be used as if it did20	# refer to a specific home directory21	@{HOME}=@{HOMEDIRS}/*/ /root/2223	# Also, include files in tunables/home.d for site-specific adjustments24	include if exists <tunables/home.d>X@debian:~$
debian stuck in login screen after unsuccessfully install another debian debian stuck in login screen after unsuccessfully install another debianu/ilikeyorushika•12 days agodebian stuck in login screen after unsuccessfully install another debianso guys i just finished installing debian 13 headless to a ssd. and when i log in after that it just won't let me in.summary :i have debian 13 xfce (laptop)i wanted to install debian headless for learning purposes on external ssdso i hook up live usb with ventoy in it and the ssdboot to grub, select start the installerit went okay until it fails at "select timezone". just black out for like 15 minutes, and i shut it down.eject all usb and ssdboot to debianrefuse to let me in with correct username and password. it's just looping after i enter the credentialshelp pls
Hooked on debian, it feel better Hooked on debian, it feel betteru/Babybeels•9 days agoHooked on debian, it feel better
My Debian + LXDE My Debian + LXDEu/National_Mousse9144•21 days agoMy Debian + LXDE
TTY TTYu/Crackedscreen139•12 days agoTTYHello Reddit.I normally used Linux 6.12.48 on a Debian Trixie, but after a reboot I decided to boot into a newer kernel.The newer kernel (6.12.57) only booted TTY.I installed 6.12.31 and also 6.17.13, which also gave me a black TTY screen.Currently I am on 6.17.13, and I have started XFCE using startxfce4, although my resolution is fixed to 1024*768.I am assuming this may be a GPU related issue, as I am using a Nvidia P4000 with Nouveau drivers and I've had a similar issue before.I have not tried to install proprietary drivers, as I prefer a more open source install.I am stumped as to what it could be, as 6.12.48 continues to work normally.Extras:I attempted to start SDDM, although that failed  I attempted to start Plasma 6 from TTY and that also failedAny suggestions/pointers in the right direction will be appreciated.
Settings reset after logging out Settings reset after logging outu/Prestigious-Bit-2239•12 days agoSettings reset after logging outSettings reset after logging outr/Trinity_Desktop_TDE•12 days agoSettings reset after logging outI tried to set up my desktop using the start key for the popup menu like for windows but after I logged off, it reset everything as default, even the windows key turned back into Win+ key. I need help1upvote
How to Make A Debian Base Linux Distro? How to Make A Debian Base Linux Distro?u/Mindless_Tower_1633•22 hr. agoHow to Make A Debian Base Linux Distro?Is there any reliable source that can help me build my own Linux distribution based on Debian 13? I found a guide from about seven years ago, but most of the links and resources are no longer available. What is the best and most up-to-date source to follow today, and what is the recommended approach for doing this properly?
Going to install Debian on a 2nd SSD but don't want to destroy Windows Boot Manager Going to install Debian on a 2nd SSD but don't want to destroy Windows Boot Manageru/Safe_Top_4146•12 days agoGoing to install Debian on a 2nd SSD but don't want to destroy Windows Boot ManagerI tried to install debian before on it, it completely removed my Windows Boot Manager, so I had to reinstall Windows on the main drive.  What option do I use on installation to be able to dual boot this right.
Best ShareX alternative for Debian? Best ShareX alternative for Debian?u/Interesting_Air3283•12 days agoBest ShareX alternative for Debian?
Best distro for a newbie that have come of windows 10? Best distro for a newbie that have come of windows 10?u/Rough_Sheepherder_86•13 days agoBest distro for a newbie that have come of windows 10?I use a nvidia gtx 1660, 8gb ram and a i5 9600k. what is the best for someone that play games?
I need help, I'm a new Debian user I need help, I'm a new Debian useru/zrtxwaos•5 days agoI need help, I'm a new Debian user
Debian Appreciation Post Debian Appreciation Postu/MD90__•5 days agoDebian Appreciation PostI'm so happy to be back on Debian. I switched from Void to Debian and it was just a great feeling. I got my dev environment setup and I learned something new in a window manager in sway which Ive done before. Debian has never let me down and always worked for me and I always feel at home with this distro. I think I might end up contributing code and doc stuff to Debian because at this point I don't need to leave Debian I'm happy where I'm at now. I've tried nearly every distro out there from bare metal runs to vm's. Debian is just the distro for me
Why apt, why? Why apt, why?u/Santosh83•4 days agoWhy apt, why?
Thank you Debain security researchers Thank you Debain security researchersu/924gtr•2 days agoThank you Debain security researchersI just want to give a shout out to the Debian security team and independent testers and researchers.  You're appreciated more than you know.
Sysctl config - Your opinions please Sysctl config - Your opinions pleaseu/S1e0rdk•13 days agoSysctl config - Your opinions pleaseHello,I'm trying to secure my Debian 13 Kde install on laptop.I have created some sysctl config, but i am only a hobbyist.Can you please help to analyze my config?Maybe I need to add / remove / modify something?# Core dumps kernel.core_pattern=|/bin/false fs.suid_dumpable=0 #kernel.kptr_restrict = 2  # Kernel kernel.kptr_restrict=2 kernel.dmesg_restrict=1 kernel.printk=3 3 3 3 kernel.unprivileged_bpf_disabled=1 net.core.bpf_jit_harden=2 dev.tty.ldisc_autoload=0 vm.unprivileged_userfaultfd=0 kernel.kexec_load_disabled=1 kernel.sysrq=176 kernel.perf_event_paranoid=2 #kernel.modules_disabled=1 #kernel.sysrq=0  # Network net.ipv4.tcp_syncookies=1 net.ipv4.tcp_rfc1337=1 net.ipv4.conf.all.rp_filter=1 net.ipv4.conf.default.rp_filter=1 net.ipv4.conf.all.accept_redirects=0 net.ipv4.conf.default.accept_redirects=0 net.ipv4.conf.all.secure_redirects=0 net.ipv4.conf.default.secure_redirects=0 net.ipv6.conf.all.accept_redirects=0 net.ipv6.conf.default.accept_redirects=0 net.ipv4.conf.all.send_redirects=0 net.ipv4.conf.default.send_redirects=0 net.ipv4.icmp_echo_ignore_all=1 net.ipv4.conf.all.accept_source_route=0 net.ipv4.conf.default.accept_source_route=0 net.ipv6.conf.all.accept_source_route=0 net.ipv6.conf.default.accept_source_route=0 net.ipv6.conf.all.accept_ra=0 net.ipv6.conf.default.accept_ra=0 net.ipv6.conf.all.use_tempaddr=2 net.ipv6.conf.default.use_tempaddr=2 net.ipv6.conf.all.accept_redirects = 0 net.ipv4.conf.all.log_martians=1 net.ipv4.conf.default.log_martians=1  # User space kernel.yama.ptrace_scope=2 vm.mmap_rnd_bits=32 vm.mmap_rnd_compat_bits=16 fs.protected_symlinks=1 fs.protected_hardlinks=1 fs.protected_fifos=2 fs.protected_regular=2Thank you!
Help setting up WiFi and ethernet on a fresh install Help setting up WiFi and ethernet on a fresh installu/SethThe_hwsw•13 days agoHelp setting up WiFi and ethernet on a fresh installEDIT: Nevermind   : )    My dumb ass didn't think of rebooting their system after the fresh install. A reboot solved my issue.I'm using an ancient Semp Toshiba IS 1412 laptop (terrible little thing), and I'm trying to install Debian 13 on it. no DE. I previously had a Debian installation on it, which had similar issues, but not to the degree I'm having now.I cannot in any way connect to the internet. I've tried USB tethering with my phone, I've tried plugging in an ethernet cable, and even the WiFi network I used for installation doesn't work (all network interfaces seem to be down?). I've heardifupshould make the networks go up, but it just doesn't.rfkillwas also of no use on my previous install,As mentioned, WiFi was also nonfunctional on my previous install because of similar issues. The WiFi interface can be turned on and off with the function keys, but that does not work in Debian for me (Windows & the installer have no issues using WiFi though). I don't know what to do.
Chances of seeing Cosmic on Debian 14? Chances of seeing Cosmic on Debian 14?u/chris32457•23 hr. agoChances of seeing Cosmic on Debian 14?Curious if cosmic will be available for Debian 14. Which Epoch of Cosmic will they use too? I imagine 1, 2, or 3.https://blog.system76.com/post/cosmic-epoch-2-and-3-roadmap
My first PC (Debian stretch 💀) My first PC (Debian stretch 💀)u/yamashisouza•17 days agoMy first PC (Debian stretch 💀)
Wow, just wow Wow, just wowu/lynx_xp•22 days agoWow, just wowThis is an appreciation post because wow, my laptop is old and slow, it has an ssd but limited by 4gb soldered ram (sucks), though it can run multiple old assassin's creed titles up until 3 (haven't tried black flag yet) and of course some other newer minimal games. Anyways, windows 11 basically cooked this thing and all the time idling at 77% ram + 40% cpu.... guess what debian 13 (xfce) idles at? ~1-5% cpu and ~28% ram (thats like ~900mb) this blew my mind. Games that barely ran, run at playable fps and games that ran, run at fantastic 60 fps! Though this distro is not noob friendly, luckily I had experience with mint and nobara linux beforehand but running pure debian was my answer. Simply lovely! (Max?) I would love any customization tips for xfce as I never used it before, only used kde. Thank you for making debian.
Intel T14S Gen 6 processor drains battery quickly on Debian 13 Intel T14S Gen 6 processor drains battery quickly on Debian 13u/tonysupp•13 days agoIntel T14S Gen 6 processor drains battery quickly on Debian 13Hi, the battery drains too quickly in sleep mode.48% in about 14 hours.Too much. Is there a solution to this problem?Thank you so much for your time
My latest setup My latest setupu/Business_Cod_1818•6 days agoMy latest setup
New to linux New to linuxu/tinhur•3 days agoNew to linux
my debian desktop because arch linux kernel panicked my debian desktop because arch linux kernel panickedu/GalaxyWasNotHere•13 days agomy debian desktop because arch linux kernel panicked
My debian desktop My debian desktopu/Equivalent-Collar954•22 days agoMy debian desktop
I like this. I like this.u/Alternative_Sea_7232•7 days agoI like this.
Code editor for arm64 Code editor for arm64u/dieterdistel•13 days agoCode editor for arm64What code editors can I use on Aarch64?PHP, Python, some shell.Docker and Git integration would be nice.
Debian kernel adjustment AMAZING! Debian kernel adjustment AMAZING!u/PinkSlep•3 days agoDebian kernel adjustment AMAZING!DISCLAIMER DO NOT CHANGE ANY SETTINGS UNLESS YOU KNOW WHAT THEY DOHi. After some research I found that you can make many adjustments to the Debian kernel. This also applies to any Linux kernel in general. You can do this without modifying millions of lines of C code.I will not explain how to do it. It is not a secret anyway. By using menuconfig and adjusting as many options as you actually understand you can end up with a faster and more responsive system. For people who care about smoothness in gaming this can also improve frame pacing without losing anything.I chose to edit the Debian kernel instead of vanilla Linux because I did not want any surprises I am also still a noobWhat surprised me is how rarely I see anyone talking about this topic. At first I was scared that I might brick my PC. In reality as long as you understand what each setting does you will be fine. From what I learned the more specific you are the better the results. Enabling and disabling options and changing values such as how many CPU cores or threads you have or how many GPUs you use really matters.For example if you have six cores and twelve threads you set twelve. If you have one integrated GPU and one dedicated GPU you configure that accordingly.Or CPU vendor Core2 or newer/xenonMany debugging setting , etcNote: that's one of almost hundred of settingsAt first glance it might seem like these changes would not do much. But think about it this way.[The less time the CPU needs to think the better]Every tiny detail matters if you want to squeeze out every bit of performance/Responsiveness. Even though I only changed around sixty percent of the settings the difference was noticeable.And for some reason I do not know why it also fixed my screen tearing. It used to be very annoying when watching videos or playing games.
Reconsidering Debian Reconsidering Debianu/ne0n008•13 days agoReconsidering DebianHello all,I installed Debian 13 with KDE in September and, more or less, I had fun times. Until a month ago when I started gettingthis. I was told to ignore it but now, my load times are around 1-2 minutes while Win10 loads in less than 20 seconds. Both OS's are on separate drives and I use GRUB. God forbid I schedule update during boot - last time it lasted for 20 minutes or so. I don't think this is expected behavior.Then I hadthis(I was expecting driver issues but not with a printer so simple and so old) and I can't seem to get into understanding with my sound system in Debian. My mic was working initially, but now it doesn't. I can hear reverb when I use Alsamixer, which means my mic is inputting sound, but the system is not seeing it. It has to do something  with false addressing of audio inputs on my mobo, from what I gathered from the internet, but why was it working initially?If I change distro, but stay with KDE (I really like KDE), will these problems go away? Or, will changing desktop environment help? I tried Fedora with KDE in VM and it loaded very fast. But then I had abugwhere I could log in, but my password wasn't working afterwards. All that while my host Debian taskbar was glitching like crazy.Getting games to run was...interesting, but I managed to get them working. OBS was a struggle to setup, before I foundthisarticle.So, in short, should I switch distro as solving these issues is not worth it (under condition that other distro doesn't have these issues)? Is my machine not compatible with Debian 13 (AMD 5800X, 64 Gb RAM, AMD Radeon 7900 XTX, Gigabyte Aorus mobo)? Or, is Debian 13 still too fresh out of the oven(Wayland nor being well integrated)?I really like how Debian and KDE are snappy while working as intended, have one of the biggest repositories and thorough testing logic, but it's getting worse for me, especially in boot department. I hope these issues are solvable or at least non transferable to another distro.There were other bigger and smaller issues I managed to overcome, but things mentioned in this post are deterring me from Debian. I'm not a person who distro hops and I need a system that I will keep for long periods of time without issues like these. Or at least without boot problems.Tia.
Choosing between ThinkPad P14s Gen 6 AMD vs P1 Gen 7 / Gen 8 for Debian 13  least driver hassle long-term? Choosing between ThinkPad P14s Gen 6 AMD vs P1 Gen 7 / Gen 8 for Debian 13  least driver hassle long-term?u/defnotAva•13 days agoChoosing between ThinkPad P14s Gen 6 AMD vs P1 Gen 7 / Gen 8 for Debian 13  least driver hassle long-term?I’m trying to decide between three ThinkPad options and i would appreciate input specifically from people running Debian  long term.My goal is to run Debian 13 only (no dual-boot, no Windows after install) and not have to deal with pain as soon as i buy it kernel updates, firmware, GPU, Wi-Fi, power management, etc.The three options I’m considering:ThinkPad P14s Gen 6 AMDRyzen AI 7 PRO 350Integrated AMD graphicsMediaTek Wi-Fi 7 (MT7925)96 GB DDR514" WUXGAThinkPad P1 Gen 7 (Intel)Core Ultra 7 155HNVIDIA RTX 2000 AdaIntel Wi-Fi 732 GB LPDDR5x16" WUXGAThinkPad P1 Gen 8 (Intel)Core Ultra 9 285HNVIDIA RTX PRO 2000 BlackwellIntel Wi-Fi 764 GB LPDDR5x16" 4K panelI like the look and form factor of the P1 Gen 7/8 a lot, but I’m honestly less familiar with how stable NVIDIA newer Intel platforms are on Debianover time, especially with:Blackwell GPUsWi-Fi 7power/thermalssuspend/resumeI know AMD iGPU systems are usually simpler on Linux, but the P14s Gen 6 has newer Ryzen  so I’m not sure how stable that actually is on Debian 13 either.
building from source stability building from source stabilityu/birchtree1357•13 days agobuilding from source stabilityI am a somewhat experienced linux user, having used ubuntu on wsl, fedora for a couple months and now arch linux (with hyprland) for a year. I have heard about Debian and the stability it provides and I have been trying it for nearly 2 weeks now with hyprland and it has been stable as per my expectations, however a lot of what I've been using has been installed from an install script and it has installed some stuff that i personally wouldn't install for a task (eg. sddm for login management). Now I plan to switch to debian as my daily driver but avoid using install scripts and instead building from source where needed myself. Would it be okay if I were to update the software built from source very rarely (once every 4-5 months) unless required and will it cause any issues to stability later down the lineand if so how often should I update it?
Switched to Debian! Switched to Debian!u/Nueveh_680•3 days agoSwitched to Debian!Sooo I was with Linux Mint Debian edition but I decided to switch to Debian since I like GNOME desktop way more than Cinammon. To he honest, I barely know how to use apt, since I've mostly used dnf and pacman. Any tips for a beginner like me?
Something weird happend: I fell in love with Xfce Something weird happend: I fell in love with Xfceu/SmallTimeMiner_XNV•8 days agoSomething weird happend: I fell in love with Xfce
LibreOffice lags at 125% scaling - KDE Plasma LibreOffice lags at 125% scaling - KDE Plasmau/Raging-Bull-24•13 days agoLibreOffice lags at 125% scaling - KDE PlasmaI've been restoring some old laptops with Debian 12-13 according to the system specs. [Some older machines seem to perform better on D12 than D13, maybe due to D13 overhead for newer hardware].Nevertheless, when using KDE Plasma X11 at 125%, some applications do work properly while others do not. One example being LibreOffice, which stutters, shows misaligned grid cells, double typing, and top bar buttons misplaced or blurred - even when disabling GPU acceleration and so on.I was wondering if anyone has been able to solve this issue when using 125% scaling on Debian KDE Plasma X11 specifically. I'm restoring laptops that have old GTX GPUs, I don't know if Nvidia GPUs have anything to do with it.Any help appreciated.
Touchpad gestures Touchpad gesturesu/Desolatejg•1 day agoTouchpad gesturesHow can I implement the laptop touchpad text on my Debian 13 Cinnamon computer?
Error installing Debian 13 Error installing Debian 13u/deckfixer•13 days agoError installing Debian 13
Weird suspend behavior? Weird suspend behavior?u/BuildYourOwnHumanKit•13 days agoWeird suspend behavior?I'm running Trixie with KDE (AMD cpu/igpu). None of the suspension options except restart work correctly when accessed through the Ctrl+Alt+Del menu.Sleep causes my screen to alternate between black and an unresponsive lock screen.Log out sends me to a login screen, but entering my password just makes my screen go black then returns me to loginShutdown gives a console message that the system will shut down, then gets stuck on the default Plymouth screen.Letting the screen lock automatically after inactivity just makes the screen go black become unresponsive.I have to shut down by long-pressing the power button in all of the above cases. Locking the screen with Super+L works fine.Any thoughts?
Nvidia Driver Issue Nvidia Driver Issueu/mcds99•13 days agoNvidia Driver IssueI first tried to install the nvidia drivers following the debian wiki instructions, it failed all but once in 18 attempts, the system would not boot, each with a fresh install of Debian 13, Linux Kernel 6.12.I did some googling and found out the DKMS that the debian instructions tell us to use don't work, it crashes the kernel. The reason is debian has the 550 drivers and the 565 are the ones you need to use.I reinstalled the 19th time.Updated the sources.list with non-free and contrib then I followed the instructions...apt install linux-headers-$(uname -r)linux-headers-6.12.63+deb13-amd64This installed three dependencies linux-headers-6.12.63+deb13-common  linux-kbuild-6.12.63+deb13  paholeThese commands downloaded and installed the (very fast very color deep) drivers from Nvidia.wgethttps://developer.download.nvidia.com/compute/cuda/repos/debian12/x86_64/cuda-keyring_1.1-1_all.debsudo dpkg -i cuda-keyring_1.1-1_all.debsudo apt updatesudo apt install nvidia-open=565.57.01-1It worked perfectly the first time!If Debian would add the 565 driver and the above headers to the repository people would not be reinstalling 19 times to get drivers that work the first time.
Making Xfce look better and more functional Making Xfce look better and more functionalu/Gooats•7 days agoMaking Xfce look better and more functionalI want to move from Gnome to Xfce on my laptop. Default Gnome looks good but there's a bunch of stuff bothering me and customizing it is not practical. Also Gnome forces you to use a certain workflow which I am not a fan of. Anyways I installed Xfce and let's just say the default look is rough around the edges. For those using Xfce can you share so tips to make it look better and more functional. For example I like to have my app launcher hotkeyed to my Super key. I've read about whiskers. Plank looks nice as a dock. Should I use themes ? I don't want to spend days customizing it either but if you have some tips or want to share your config. Cheers
Secure boot.... Is it really necessary? Secure boot.... Is it really necessary?u/Apart-Individual2655•2 days agoSecure boot.... Is it really necessary?I've finally made the switch from Windows to Debian. No more distro hopping for me :) I'm running a Ryzen 5 5600H with a RTX3050mobile on a Dell g15. No issues apart from having to manually sign the Nvidia drivers due to secure boot (took forever btw)My question is "is secure boot really necessary"? As long as you have luks encryption on your drives then your private info is safe from your laptop being stolen anyway? It's not like secure boot locks the bootloader, I don't actually think it gives a security advantage. I can't think of a single instance where I thought "thank god secure boot saved me from xyz problem" or "if abc happens it won't matter because I've got secure boot"It's good to be back on Linux. Funny thing is I've never actually installed Debian before. I've had plenty of archinstalls (which eventually break) but the Debian installer has always been so convoluted and janky I've never got through!
Made a GNOME extension for GitHub repos Made a GNOME extension for GitHub reposu/debba_•6 days agoMade a GNOME extension for GitHub repos
Another desktop mood Another desktop moodu/Quiquoqua48•1 mo. agoAnother desktop mood
How To Customise Window Button Like This ? How To Customise Window Button Like This ?u/Lonely-Hour2776•1 mo. agoHow To Customise Window Button Like This ?
How can I safely remove mysql from my system? How can I safely remove mysql from my system?u/BadgerInevitable3966•5 days agoHow can I safely remove mysql from my system?
Which display manager is this? Which display manager is this?u/aprilludgate0•11 days agoWhich display manager is this?
My Gnome setup My Gnome setupu/Business_Cod_1818•23 days agoMy Gnome setup
Audio not working (Dummy Output) Audio not working (Dummy Output)u/thebobfactory•13 days agoAudio not working (Dummy Output)I switched from ChromeOS to debian using MrChromeBox's rw_legacy firmware update. I used all of the disk for the install. There's no sound, like it was when I installed Ubuntu on this same machine. I can use headphones, but nothing else.
Building a local repository for other linux servers to use for updates. Building a local repository for other linux servers to use for updates.u/InfoSeeker_1120•3 days agoBuilding a local repository for other linux servers to use for updates.I have a requirement to build a local debian repository for use with quarterly maintenance in my org.  Need to prevent the repo from auto-updating, allowing for a one-time sync that is used for 1-3 weeks of testing before rolling out to production.What is the best way to go about this - best practices, soc2 compliance?I've found the DebianRepository/Setup wiki, along with various posts about simple creation of your local repo using the 'apt update, apt upgrade' options for the local host, but nothing about best practice, steps for "freezing" the repository, configuration for distribution to other servers.I'm sure someone has done this in an enterprise setup. Would you mind sharing how you accomplished the task - any guides with detailed instructions?Also, how much disk space would be needed for the local repo?  Trixie and Bookworm distributions is all I would want to mirror.
Мой первый сетапчик так сказть 😋 перешёл на дебиан ещё позавчера мне по кайфу Мой первый сетапчик так сказть 😋 перешёл на дебиан ещё позавчера мне по кайфуu/Inevitable_Abies_762•20 days agoМой первый сетапчик так сказть 😋 перешёл на дебиан ещё позавчера мне по кайфу
Wifi not asking for password on debian testing install Wifi not asking for password on debian testing installu/67v38wn60w37•13 days agoWifi not asking for password on debian testing installHi, when I install debian stable, it asks for my wifi password, and installs as normal. When I try to install debian testing, it still shows an entry (starting w-) where the wifi was for stable, but it no longer ends with "(wireless)", and doesn't ask for my password. When I select it it inevitably fails.
The Eternal Return The Eternal Returnu/Stunning-Mix492•4 days agoThe Eternal ReturnLately, I've been dabbling in rolling release distributions (mainly Arch, Nix, and Void). It's funny how you get excited about something new at first, but in the end, you always come back home: Debian.
My NVME stole my hard drive please help My NVME stole my hard drive please helpu/AsAsin18•13 days agoMy NVME stole my hard drive please help
ayuda de instalacion ayuda de instalacionu/andrewmurdockpy•1 day agoayuda de instalacionW: Repositories should provide a clear-signed InRelease file, but none found at cdrom://[Debian GNU/Linux 13.3.0 _Trixie_ - Official amd64 NETINST with firmware 20260110-10:59]/dists/trixie/InRelease.E: El repositorio «cdrom://[Debian GNU/Linux 13.3.0 _Trixie_ - Official amd64 NETINST with firmware 20260110-10:59] trixie Release» no tiene un fichero de Publicación.W: No se puede actualizar de un repositorio como este de forma segura y por tanto está deshabilitado por omisión.W: Vea la página de manual apt-secure(8) para los detalles sobre la creación de repositorios y la configuración de usuarios.E: cdrom://[Debian GNU/Linux 13.3.0 _Trixie_ - Official amd64 NETINST with firmware 20260110-10:59] trixie Release is not (yet) available (Utilice «apt-cdrom» para hacer que APT reconozca este CD. No puede utilizar «apt-get update» para añadir nuevos CDs)W: OpenPGP signature verification failed:https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/strycore/Debian_12./ InRelease: Sub-process /usr/bin/sqv returned an error code (1), error message is: Error: Failed to parse keyring "/etc/apt/keyrings/lutris.gpg"  Caused by:     0: Reading "/etc/apt/keyrings/lutris.gpg": No such file or directory (os error 2)     1: No such file or directory (os error 2)E: El repositorio «https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/strycore/Debian_12./ InRelease» no está firmado.W: No se puede actualizar de un repositorio como este de forma segura y por tanto está deshabilitado por omisión.W: Vea la página de manual apt-secure(8) para los detalles sobre la creación de repositorios y la configuración de usuarios.E:https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/strycore/Debian_12./ InRelease is not (yet) available (Sub-process /usr/bin/sqv returned an error code (1), error message is: Error: Failed to parse keyring "/etc/apt/keyrings/lutris.gpg"  Caused by:     0: Reading "/etc/apt/keyrings/lutris.gpg": No such file or directory (os error 2)     1: No such file or directory (os error 2))que hago, alguna ayuda
How to prevent GRUB from rendering/show Plymouth immediately when booting? How to prevent GRUB from rendering/show Plymouth immediately when booting?u/PlymouthDebian•4 days agoHow to prevent GRUB from rendering/show Plymouth immediately when booting?On Debian 13, even after settingGRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="splash quiet"and settingGRUB_TIMEOUT=0in/etc/default/grub, and then updating grub, it still shows this on boot for a few seconds before switching over to Plymouth:Booting `Debian GNU/Linux' Loading Liunx 6.18.5+deb13-amd64 ... Loading initial ramdisk ...On other distributions, the boot process looks like this:You press power on your PC; it shows the UEFI logoIt still shows the UEFI logo; GRUB rendersnothing.Then Plymouth starts, often with a bgrt themeAnd that's the behaviour I wish to replicate on Debian. I myself have set the bgrt Plymouth theme, but it looks very unattractive if I go from the UEFI logo, to GRUB text, to the UEFI logo again; I want to continuously show the UEFI logo throughout the entire boot process.And unfortunately, settingquiet_boot="1"in/etc/grub.d/10_linuxmerely renders the GRUB background without any text, when my aim is to prevent GRUB from clearing the framebufffer entirely.EDIT:Any edits to GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX doNOTaffect GRUB's output; it only affects the Linux kernel's output, which is not the matter at hand.
Question about nvidia drivers and support for pereferal brand softwear like razer Question about nvidia drivers and support for pereferal brand softwear like razeru/Krisho98•14 days agoQuestion about nvidia drivers and support for pereferal brand softwear like razerHi! Have been using ubuntu and debian on some laptops and pis and because I don't strictly need win11 for any real work I would be interested in using lets say debian for my main desktop as well. And no I don't wish to dualboot.I've got the understanding that nvidia drivers have been an issue on linux before and that some distros may still have some issues with them. Is this still the case? Are there any real drawbaks with using nvidia on linux?I also have some razer pereferals that to my knowlage require synaps to function correctly. Does anyone have firsthand experiense about the app on debian or linux in general and is there any way for it to work while not directly supported to my knowlage?
A year of distro hopping later, Debian Stable finally clicked for me A year of distro hopping later, Debian Stable finally clicked for meu/Snezhok_Youtuber•1 mo. agoA year of distro hopping later, Debian Stable finally clicked for meExactly. I like it whenmy system works for me, not when I constantly feel like I’m working for it.Over roughly a year (which isn’t that long for distro hopping, but it was enough for me), I went through a lot of setups trying to figure out what I actually enjoy using:Ubuntu -> Arch (KDE) -> Arch (Hyprland, multiple ready configs + my own) -> NixOS (first attempt, didn’t like the approach at the time) -> Debian Stable (dropped it because some software I use daily felt too old) -> Arch again (end-4 dots, used it for a while) -> NixOS again (wanted declarative config + end-4 looks, ended up borrowing someone else’s config).That second NixOS run is where things started to fall apart for me. I ran into very practical issues:Godot needing a specific version, a VPN that only shipped as an AppImage that I couldn’t get running properly, and a lot of time spent tweaking instead of actually using the system. I tried to fix it, but at some point I just burned out and rage-quit.After that, I realized I wanted somethingsimpler and more predictable, so I could focus on programming and everyday use instead of constant tweaking.I moved toDebian Unstablefor about a month. It showed me that Debian can absolutely work for modern use with external repos and Flatpaks - but it also made me nervous in the same way Arch did. I kept thinking about updates more than I wanted to.So I wentfull Debian Stable.This time, it clicked.I even came withKDE, but eventually switched toGNOMEand leaned fully into the “stable and clean” mindset. Now my system looks clean, works clean, and my usual thought isn’t“I need to update my system”- it’s about my work, gaming, or whatever hobby I’m into at the moment.
Project for Linux distribution users: Debian testing, systems based on Debian testing. Project for Linux distribution users: Debian testing, systems based on Debian testing.u/Asdeketsu_Loss•14 days agoProject for Linux distribution users: Debian testing, systems based on Debian testing.Hello, good evening everyone! I recently created a project called TALZKHIYA. The goal of this project is to help those who use systems based on Debian Testing or Debian Testing itself.TALZKHIYA is a community project focused on reporting, analyzing, and resolving real Debian Testing bugs, with complete technical context:System versionKernelGraphical interfacePeriod in which it occurredImpact on the systemSolution (when it exists)It is not a new distro.It is not a generic support proposal.It is not a fork.The proposal is living documentation of the controlled chaos that is Debian Testing — gathering real cases and reproducible solutions, giving credit to those who report or resolve them.Before publicizing it more widely, I wanted to hear from the community:Do you also feel the need for a more focused and organized space for Debian Testing bugs?Bonus: For those asking where the repositories or any kind of documentation are located, repositories and manifest/documentation are being structured at this moment — the idea is to start small, but technical and consistent.
What do you use to store your Debian notes? What do you use to store your Debian notes?u/Degen55555•23 days agoWhat do you use to store your Debian notes?
How do i install nvidia drivers on debian How do i install nvidia drivers on debianu/Strict-Maize7494•1 day agoHow do i install nvidia drivers on debianthe offical debian pacages are way too old only driver 550 so what am i gonna do comit a crime and install them from the nvidia website i have an rtx 5070ti
My Gnome setup update My Gnome setup updateu/Business_Cod_1818•16 days agoMy Gnome setup update
kde x11 debian, firefox tab icons ghosting through applications, no transparency enabled kde x11 debian, firefox tab icons ghosting through applications, no transparency enabledu/dattattor•14 days agokde x11 debian, firefox tab icons ghosting through applications, no transparency enabledI dont know how to better describe this, but some, not all, firefox icons just show visible through every window over it, even a virtualbox, nothing shows up in taking a screen shot. and the icons stay when firefox is minimized, but it's not burn in because it's different every boot
System Systemu/PUNK_TikTok•14 days agoSystemHow long did your Debian install last before you broke it?MINE 7 days
installing a RealTek 8822bu WFi adapter in distro with built-in drivers installing a RealTek 8822bu WFi adapter in distro with built-in driversu/AbjectViolinist9625•14 days agoinstalling a RealTek 8822bu WFi adapter in distro with built-in driversI am working with Proxmox, which is a Debian-based distro. The Proxmox forum has been less than responsive. The Debian User Forum registration process appears to be broken. I thought I would try my luck here.I have a Dell Optiplex 790 with an i7-2600k and 32GB of RAM, for anyone who wants to know my hardware setup. It runs Windows very well, and the USB WiFi adapter in question connects plug-and-play without issues in Windows 11. Windows 10 requires a driver but it also works fine.I am now running Proxmox 9.1.1 on that host, and generally it runs well. I can git clone anything I need, and it will install and work.What does not work is the USB WiFi adapter, which is a RealTek rtl8822bu.I can see it if I run "ip a", and the specific information it reports is correct.If I run "ip link set <device name> up" the cursor returns to the prompt without complaint, but the state of the device remains "down", and the indicator light remains off, as would be expected.If I move it to a Windows machine, it lights up and works immediately, so it's not a hardware failure.I know that all 10 of the USB ports on the hardware are working properly because I tested each one, and Proxmox correctly identifies whatever is plugged in.There are a bunch of Github sites with drivers for this device, including:JEREMYB31DV-ANOMALYENTROPICEFFECTANADSINGHRINCATSTATICDEVMORROWNRCILYNXABPERIASAMYbut none of them work in Proxmox, as best I can tell. I may be doing something wrong in the install, but I will need a little help to confirm that.None of those Github sites mention the Proxmox distro specifically, so I'm wondering if that is the issue.One thing that I did see is a mention of there being built-in drivers for this device, and sure enough, when I run "lsmod rtw88" it comes back with a number of drivers, including the one specific to the model of the device. "ip a" correctly identifies the ven/dev numbers.Someone mentioned the fact that built-in drivers need to be blacklisted in order to prevent them from loading, but I am hesitant to go that route because the developers on Github saythat their drivers are older than theirs and because built-in drivers are much preferred, given that the distro authors have included, and hopefully tested, those drivers.So I am wondering what logs or diagnostic tools are available to help puzzle this out.
whenever I resume from standby, regardless of what DE I use, I can briefly see the entire desktop whenever I resume from standby, regardless of what DE I use, I can briefly see the entire desktopu/dattattor•15 days agowhenever I resume from standby, regardless of what DE I use, I can briefly see the entire desktophow can I prevent this? absolutely everything on 2 monitors becomes visible. I tried ai's fix for the 'race condition' which did nothing
Updated to latest point release i.e. 13.3 :) Updated to latest point release i.e. 13.3 :)u/unixbhaskar•1 mo. agoUpdated to latest point release i.e. 13.3 :)
KDE with Debian 13 REALLY BAD KDE with Debian 13 REALLY BADu/BlazzaNz•2 days agoKDE with Debian 13 REALLY BADSo we all know Debian is supposed to be solid and the same for anything they package with it. This does not seem to be the case with KDE.One computer can't be hibernated with the hibernation shortcut on the KDE menu because it freezes when restarting, can only hibernate with the command line.Another computer when the screen locks or gets turned off by powersaving, the panel totally disappears along with the menus so that computer is useless at that point, the only option is to reset it.I've been running KDE with Debian for more than a decade and never seen so many issues with it as the Debian 13 release, it must have obviously been rushed out without proper testing, not really a good thing for debian at all. The biggest issue is that this version of KDE is probably already obsolete and the KDE people themselves will say "that's all been fixed but your old version won't be updated by Debian so you have to keep putting up with these bugs".
new kernel version woohoo new kernel version woohoou/N9s8mping•5 days agonew kernel version woohoo6.18.5
VPN Server for Windows Clients VPN Server for Windows Clientsu/Wlasiuk•15 days agoVPN Server for Windows ClientsCan you host a VPN Server on Debian, which you can connect to from a Windows PC with the integrated VPN settings? Without installing any software on the Windows side.
Graphics problem with AMD Ryzen 5 5600G, Radeon graphics built-in Graphics problem with AMD Ryzen 5 5600G, Radeon graphics built-inu/Mobile-Fruit-6077•15 days agoGraphics problem with AMD Ryzen 5 5600G, Radeon graphics built-inSolved: It turned out to be an issue with the hdmi cable... grrr!Thanks to everyone who took the time to look at the issue.I have a new AMD Ryzen 5 5600G 3,9 GHz 6 kerner AM4 PIB cpu, and have just installed a fresh debian 13 gnome.I can't boot, unless I addnomodesetto grubGRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT.I have tried with different variations ofradeon.si_support=0 amdgpu.si_support=1but that doesn't seem to help.I havefirmware-amd-graphicsinstalled.Additional info:CPU: AMD Ryzen 5 5600G with Radeon Graphics @ 12x 4.464GHzGPU: AMD/ATI Cezanne [Radeon Vega Series / Radeon Vega Mobile Series]0b:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD/ATI] Cezanne [Radeon Vega Series / Radeon Vega Mobile Series] [1002:1638] (rev c9)Subsystem: ASUSTeK Computer Inc. Device [1043:8809]Kernel modules: amdgpuPossibly related: If I lock the screen (super+L) and wait for a bit, I can't unlock. No keyboard or mouse input seems to get through, so I can't input my user password.My suspicion is some driver issue, but I can't seem to figure out what. Does anyone know of this issue and/or what my next step in troubleshooting could be?
Debian desktop-enviroment KDE Debian desktop-enviroment KDEu/Asdeketsu_Loss•10 days agoDebian desktop-enviroment KDE
AntiX hangs at startup AntiX hangs at startupu/captainretro123•14 days agoAntiX hangs at startupI have AntiX installed on my old Pentium III machine and it was running fine except for drivers for my ATI Rage XL were not working and I was stuck at 800x600. I figured out that I had to revert Xorg to the version from Debian bullseye. I downloaded a xserver-xorg-core and xserver-xorg-video-mach64 for Debian bullseye and installed them. Now when AntiX boots it loads the login screen (at a higher res than before) but typing does nothing. It hasn’t crashed cuz pressing the power button causes it to shutdown properly but I cannot login. Is there a way to fix this?
Passing Keypresses to multiple windows Passing Keypresses to multiple windowsu/Secret_Barracuda168•2 days agoPassing Keypresses to multiple windowsi would like to get a program running on debian (KDE plasma as window manager), the program is bongo cat from steam (i know there are linux alternatives but i want to join lobbies with my windows freinds), i have fixed transparancy and being unable to switch between desktops using window rules, this just leaves passing keypresses through bongo cat and whichever other window i am using, i have found solutions however most of them just allow for set windows, not arbitary like is needed for bongo cat to run correctly, is there any way to do this or am i wasting my time
Does anyone have this wallpaper as png? Does anyone have this wallpaper as png?u/Interesting_Air3283•15 days agoDoes anyone have this wallpaper as png?I I couldn't find it's file anywhere. I tried /usr/share/backgrounds, and other wallpaper directories.Edit: I found an svg file here: /usr/share/desktop-base/emerald-theme/wallpaper/contents/images
Issues using debian for the first time Issues using debian for the first timeu/Positive-Incident221•2 days agoIssues using debian for the first timeSo i've heard a lot of nice things about debian and how stable it is but after using it for a bit, that's not rly the experience i've had so i'm wondering if im doing anything wrong. My first issue was that the user account I created didn't have sudo access. Even if i gave it administrator privileges. Turns out I had to modify the sudoers files to get sudo access. I still have some sudo related issues like not being able to use the reboot or shutdown command unless i use sudo. I've also had issues with adding repositories. Just gives me an error every time i try to add a repository, not sure what's going on but nothing seems to work. This plus other small announces everywhere just had me wondering if i did something wrong during install or something? I've used linux a few months now. I've been on arch, linux mint and fedora and i've loved those, but some reason debian has just been giving me issues. Anybody know if this is just how debian is or if i've fucked something up?
Just got approved! You can now install GitHub Tray directly from GNOME Extensions 🚀 Just got approved! You can now install GitHub Tray directly from GNOME Extensions 🚀u/debba_•2 days agoJust got approved! You can now install GitHub Tray directly from GNOME Extensions 🚀Just got approved! You can now install GitHub Tray directly from GNOME Extensions 🚀r/gnome•2 days agoJust got approved! You can now install GitHub Tray directly from GNOME Extensions 🚀228upvotes·61comments
On Debian 13 (trixie), flatpak apps don't show up in GNOME; all flatpak apps get a generic icon On Debian 13 (trixie), flatpak apps don't show up in GNOME; all flatpak apps get a generic iconu/ClickLeafChick•3 days agoOn Debian 13 (trixie), flatpak apps don't show up in GNOME; all flatpak apps get a generic iconHaving the devil's own time dealing with Flatpak applications under GNOME in Debian 13 (trixie).Unless I take drastic measures like copying the .desktop files from /var/lib/flatpak/exports/share/applications to ~/.local/share/applications, when I search for the newly installed app in GNOME, it does not show up. Logging back in does not help. Restarting does not help. `sudo gtk-update-icon-cache` does not help.Even if I copy the .desktop files into ~/.local/share/applications (which is a hack and I know it), every single flatpak app gets the same generic icon. (See below for a screenshot of what this generic icon looks like.)This occurs regardless of whether I install the apps from flathub or from a downloaded .flatpak file, and regardless of whether I install them as a regular user or as root. The same generic icon appears when running newly installed flatpak apps from the command line, e.g. `flatpak run com.brave.Browser` as shown below.I've googled the crap out of this to no avail.I do have a workaround, but it seems like a total kluge:Manually copy the .desktop files from /var/lib/flatpak/exports/share/applications to ~/.local/share/applications, ANDManually copy icon files from /var/lib/flatpak/app into /usr/share/icons.Surely this isn't how flatpak apps are supposed to interact with GNOME? Surely there's a way to install a flatpak app, maybe run one "update icon cache" or "update gnome app list" type command, maybe restart gnome, and the icons appear?Any help would be extremely appreciated, as I'm tearing my hair out here. (I'm an experienced Debian user, but mostly use it on the command line, so I'm a noob at this GNOME stuff!)
Debian 13 KDE Rice Debian 13 KDE Riceu/Top-Fig2221•1 mo. agoDebian 13 KDE Rice
[Git/Debian] Configuré un .gitignore global para evitar subir mis entornos virtuales (.venv). ¿Es esta la mejor práctica? [Git/Debian] Configuré un .gitignore global para evitar subir mis entornos virtuales (.venv). ¿Es esta la mejor práctica?u/NemesisLogos•14 days ago[Git/Debian] Configuré un .gitignore global para evitar subir mis entornos virtuales (.venv). ¿Es esta la mejor práctica?Hola comunidad,Estoy trabajando en Debian con Python y, para evitar subir accidentalmente información de mi equipo o carpetas pesadas al repositorio, configuré un.gitignoreglobal. Mi objetivo es asegurar quegitignore siempre los entornos virtuales y archivos sensibles sin tener que configurar cada proyecto manualmente.Este es el flujo que seguí desde la terminal:Creé el archivo global usando$HOMEpara evitar problemas de ruta:touch $HOME/.gitignore_globalAgregué las reglas básicas para Python:Bashecho ".venv/" >> ~/.gitignore_global echo ".env" >> ~/.gitignore_global echo "__pycache__/" >> ~/.gitignore_globalVinculé el archivo a la configuración global de Git:git config --global core.excludesfile $HOME/.gitignore_globalValidé que estuviera funcionando usandocheck-ignore:git check-ignore -v .venv/(Esto me devolvió la ruta correcta del archivo global).Mis dudas para ustedes:¿Consideran buena práctica tener el.enven el ignore global, o es mejor forzarlo en el local de cada proyecto para ser más consciente de la seguridad?Además de.venvy__pycache__, ¿qué otros archivos recomiendan ignorar a nivel global en un entorno Linux?¿Existe algún riesgo de que este ignore global entre en conflicto con configuraciones específicas de otros proyectos colaborativos?¡Agradezco cualquier feedback o corrección!
Preciso de bons motivos para sair do Cachy OS e volta para Debian Preciso de bons motivos para sair do Cachy OS e volta para Debianu/Artistic-Exit469•14 days agoPreciso de bons motivos para sair do Cachy OS e volta para DebianEstou usando Cachy OS um tempo porem sinto saudades do Debian , sou pessoa que atualmente está usando linux para estudar e jogar, só preciso de alguns motivos para voltar depois de tanto tempo.
De volta ao Debian De volta ao Debianu/Character-Split-8003•28 days agoDe volta ao DebianDe volta ao Debianr/linuxbrasil•28 days agoDe volta ao Debian307upvotes·79comments
Silly question: debian 13 installer sound Silly question: debian 13 installer soundu/florlunare•15 days agoSilly question: debian 13 installer soundThis is totally a silly and futile question. Just for curiosityI have installed debian in my laptop and I have a live iso in my usb flash to run somethings around. It's been a few days. It's been a nice experience since it's the first time in 5 years that my laptop doesn't sound like a helicopter all the time.Why does the installer do such noise when it starts to run? It's a loud "beep" sound. It scares the sht out of me!! I have tried to look for some answer but nothing. I believe it's something from the motherboard. But WHY? WHAT does it MEAN?Txh for the attention.===================EDIT For anyone looking for an answer:Debian beep sound on the start: for the devices that support it, it signals if the system is BIOS or UEFI. It's in the debian installation manual.Thanks everyone for the answers. After I posted here, I searched using "beep" instead of "sound" and found the accessibility session in the debian installation page. Sorry 🫠Also, thanks to everyone about the fun facts about old computers. I already knew some sounds are made from the motherboard for diagnostic purposes, as I worked a few months as a PC technician, but I didn't linked the two things together. Dummy.
How to Auto-Switch KDE Activities when a Controller Connects How to Auto-Switch KDE Activities when a Controller Connectsu/Ztsosara•15 days agoHow to Auto-Switch KDE Activities when a Controller ConnectsHow to Auto-Switch KDE Activities when a Controller Connectsr/kde•15 days agoHow to Auto-Switch KDE Activities when a Controller ConnectsThis guide shows you how to make KDE Plasma automatically switch to your Gaming Activity the moment you connect your Bluetooth controller.Install Required ToolsYou need a few background tools to handle notifications, Bluetooth status, and the desktop switch. On Debian/Ubuntu/Kubuntu, run:sudo apt update && sudo apt install libnotify-bin bluez dbus-x112. Collect Your Unique IDsYou need three pieces of information to tell the script what to look for and where to go.Controller MAC Address Runbluetoothctl devicesand find your controller (e.g., 0C:35:26:38:82:00).Activity IDs Runcat ~/.config/kactivitymanagerdrcLook under the [activities] section to find the long ID strings for your Gaming and Default activities.3. Create the Automation ScriptCreate a new file (e.g., Game_mode.sh) and paste the code below. Make sure to replace the IDs in the CONFIG section with yours.#!/bin/bash# CONFIG - REPLACE THESE WITH YOUR OWN IDSGAMING="your-gaming-activity-id-here"DEFAULT="your-default-activity-id-here"MAC="your-controller-mac-address-here"LAST_STATE="no"while true; do# Check if bluetooth controller is connectedCURRENT_STATE=$(bluetoothctl info $MAC | grep "Connected:" | awk '{print $2}')if [ "$CURRENT_STATE" == "yes" ] && [ "$LAST_STATE" == "no" ]; then# --- SWITCH TO GAMING ACTIVITY ---dbus-send --session --dest=org.kde.ActivityManager --type=method_call /ActivityManager/Activities org.kde.ActivityManager.Activities.SetCurrentActivity string:"$GAMING"notify-send -i applications-games "🎮 Controller Connected" "Switched to Gaming Activity"LAST_STATE="yes"elif [ "$CURRENT_STATE" == "no" ] && [ "$LAST_STATE" == "yes" ]; then# --- SWITCH TO DEFAULT ACTIVITY ---dbus-send --session --dest=org.kde.ActivityManager --type=method_call /ActivityManager/Activities org.kde.ActivityManager.Activities.SetCurrentActivity string:"$DEFAULT"notify-send -i computer "💻 Controller Disconnected" "Back to Default Activity"LAST_STATE="no"fi# Check every 3 seconds to save batterysleep 3doneMake the script executable: Right-click the file → Properties → Permissions → Check allow executing file as program (or run chmod +x Game_mode.sh in terminal).4. Enable AutostartOpen System Settings.Go to Autostart pageClick + Add... → Add Application and select your Game_mode.sh script.Log out and back in.2upvotes·1comment
HDMI Audio No Longer Working on Debian after BIOS Upgrade HDMI Audio No Longer Working on Debian after BIOS Upgradeu/Gr83st•15 days agoHDMI Audio No Longer Working on Debian after BIOS UpgradeMy PC is HP EliteDesk 800 G5 Mini PC running Debian 13 with GNOME. It has an outdated BIOS (it's last update was 2020) which I decided to update to the latest R21 Ver. 02.24.00. Before the BIOS update, everything on Debian 13 was working fine, particularly, sound is correctly sent to the monitor speaker connected through DisplayPort. I made sure no other update to my PC was done. Only the BIOS update was performed. After the BIOS was successfully updated, my PC is no longer able to send sound to the monitor speaker.How do I fix this and have a working sound through my monitor speaker again just like before the BIOS update?
After four years, I finally gave up on Zorin After four years, I finally gave up on Zorinu/raderator•4 days agoAfter four years, I finally gave up on ZorinNot happy with Zorin v18 and Aduin is too buggy. So I made my own version based on Debian Stable and 10 extensions (only 5 more than usual).Just had to install Flatpak andsudo apt install gir1.2-gmenu-3.0for ArcMenu.Everything works perfectly except ArcMenu and Dash to Panel don't respect lite/dark mode switching so I set them to transparent black. I'm in dark mode 99% of the time anyway.Stole the Anduin wallpapers.https://github.com/vinceliuice/Fluent-gtk-theme/tree/WallpaperApps:*Fastfetch*Chrome (deb file)*Tweaks*Extension Manager*Pinta*Sweet Home 3D*Deluge*Input Remapper (deb file)*Timeshift*Plex server*Gufw FirewallSo far, I have successfully avoided becoming a Linux hobbyist and hope to continue that way. This isn't much more complicated than installing Zorin. If I have the need to update the kernel, I know that can be done. I run old quad core biz desktops that I get for $60. My new printer and wifi dongle work fine tho.
Hmmm Hmmmu/Business_Cod_1818•1 mo. agoHmmm
Foo Fighters Foo Fightersu/mcds99•15 days agoFoo FightersI have three CD's Sonic Highways, In Your Honor, and One by One. CD's can't play them, can't rip them they just hang applications when they are detected. I'm thinking it's the digital content that's causing the issue (windows based).Elisa and K3b can't find them, Dolphin finds them but it takes a long time to see the content, as in minutes.Anyone else have similar issues with these or other CD's with digital content?
Bluetooth devices connect, fail, and disconnect immediately. Bluetooth devices connect, fail, and disconnect immediately.u/kvragu•15 days agoBluetooth devices connect, fail, and disconnect immediately.I had this issue in deb 12 before and, from memory, it was a matter of installing blueman aside the default KDE bluetooth app, which then worked fine.When trying to pair from bluetoothctl, this is what I see:[bluetoothctl]> pair 4C:87:5D:CA:4A:CE Attempting to pair with 4C:87:5D:CA:4A:CE [CHG] Device 4C:87:5D:CA:4A:CE Connected: yes[CHG] Device 4C:87:5D:CA:4A:CE Name: muffs[CHG] Device 4C:87:5D:CA:4A:CE Alias: muffsFailed to pair: org.bluez.Error.AuthenticationFailed[CHG] Device 4C:87:5D:CA:4A:CE Connected: no[CHG] Device 4C:87:5D:CA:4A:CE Name: LE-muffs[CHG] Device 4C:87:5D:CA:4A:CE Alias: LE-muffs[CHG] Device 4C:87:5D:CA:4A:CE ManufacturerData.Key: 0x0901 (2305)[CHG] Device 4C:87:5D:CA:4A:CE ManufacturerData.Value: 41 12 a2 bf e8 05 ec                             A......When I connect through the apps' gui, I can see my headphones, pairing seems to succeed on the laptop's side, but then immediately disconnects. Headset doesn't seem to react. Bluetooth speaker also fails to connect in a similar way.
Debian 13 16 de ram ryzen 3 gen 2 Debian 13 16 de ram ryzen 3 gen 2u/Mr-1000•15 days agoDebian 13 16 de ram ryzen 3 gen 2Muy recomendable para dar los primeros pasos en desarrollo, especialmente si quieres empezar a trabajar concontenedores y servicios web.Es bastante amigable, no abruma, y resulta ideal paradesestresarte mientras aprendes un nuevo sistemadesde cero.Perfecto para experimentar, practicar y agarrar confianza sin presión.#Development#WebDevelopment#Programming#Containers#Docker#DevOps#SelfHosting#Linux#Backend
proxmox backup server kernel zfs with cinnamon … proxmox backup server kernel zfs with cinnamon …u/FF-93•16 days agoproxmox backup server kernel zfs with cinnamon …hi there. i installed on an old imac 18.1 proxmox backup server and afterwards cinnamon desktop. it works great. is there any possibility to install debian with the proxmox kernel without the whole backup server stuff? i wanted zfs from the start and cinnamon desktop. i have not found any debian edition with this combination. i think the kernel version is an ubuntu one. can i build an installer without the backup server overhead?
Is there a way to use Debian + Latest KDE Plasma? Is there a way to use Debian + Latest KDE Plasma?u/SeniorMatthew•15 days agoIs there a way to use Debian + Latest KDE Plasma?Hello! I’ve been using Linux for the past year and a half, I did try and daily drives a lot of different distros: Arch, NixOS, Mint and even LMDE, but I just realized that I have never had any experience with plain Debian, and it might be The thing that I’m looking for! The only thing that might scare me away is the availability of the latest KDE Plasma. Is there any way to make it possible?
Old laptop shows only half of graphical instalation Old laptop shows only half of graphical instalationu/_Azelog_•15 days agoOld laptop shows only half of graphical instalationBasically I want to put debian with kodi in an old laptop and then plug it to the tv to have a self made google chromecast.I prepared the OS in a VM but couldnt make it boot in the laptop, so I tried starting over and installing Debian from the ground up. I have the netinst OS on a usb drive and plan to use it as the hard drive.Problem is it looks like the computer thinks there is more window at the left of what there actually is, so no text is displayed onscreen, just a blue rectangle that moves up and down with the arrow keys (the right part of the instalation list of options). I tried to follow an instalation on a VM at the same time to infer what options I should select, because I need XCFE instead of GNOME for Kodi (or at least i did it that way on the VM). Yet, I seem to be stuck in the partitioning process (because sometimes a loading bar appears and it says something about partitioning) but it seems it never really gets to install the OS.What should I do? how do i configure it correctly?Edit: i was using netinst as if it were a live cd, still doenst work.
При длительном копировании или загрузки (большого количества) файлов Debian прерывает операцию.  If you copy or download (a large number of) files for a long time, Debian interrupts the operation. При длительном копировании или загрузки (большого количества) файлов Debian прерывает операцию.  If you copy or download (a large number of) files for a long time, Debian interrupts the operation.u/Practical-Resort6891•2 days agoПри длительном копировании или загрузки (большого количества) файлов Debian прерывает операцию.  If you copy or download (a large number of) files for a long time, Debian interrupts the operation.Прошу помочь в решение проблемы связанной с прерыванием операции во время длительного копирования или загрузки (большого количества) файлов в "Debian GNU/Linux 13".Пример: Ставлю "Торрент" на загрузку сериала или его копирование на съёмный SSD накопитель на ночь. Но утром я вижу паузу/уведомление о сбое копирования, словно компьютер переходит в режим "сна" вместе со мной.В Windows решением этой проблемы было - изменение дополнительных параметров питания: "Сон после" и "Параметры USB" (на бездействие). Но на Linux настроек USB - не нашел. Приходится включать плеер в режиме повтора чтобы сис-ма не засыпала.Please help me solve the problem related to the interruption of an operation during a long copy or download of (a large number of) files in Debian GNU/Linux 13.Example: I set the "Torrent" to download the series or copy it to a removable SSD drive overnight. But in the morning, I see a pause/notification about a copy failure, as if the computer goes into sleep mode with me.In Windows, the solution to this problem was to change the additional power settings: "Sleep after" and "USB settings" (for inactivity). But I didn't find any USB settings on Linux. I have to turn on the player in repeat mode so that the system does not fall asleepOperating System: Debian GNU/Linux 13KDE Plasma Version: 6.3.6KDE Frameworks Version: 6.13.Qt Version: 6.8.2Kernel Version: 6.12.63+deb13-amd64 (64-bit)Graphics Platform: WaylandProcessors: 4 × Intel® Celeron® J4105 CPU @ 1.50GHzMemory: 8 ГиБ of RAM (7.6 ГиБ usable)Graphics Processor: Mesa Intel® UHD Graphics 600Manufacturer: SHENZHEN YOUDISI E-COMMERCE CO. LTDProduct Name: XBOOK-2Заранее благодарю всех за предоставленную помощь.Thank you all in advance for your help.The problem disappeared only after I removed the screensaver and the screen lock.
My Debian with XFCE My Debian with XFCEu/Forsaken-Weird-8428•12 days agoMy Debian with XFCE
FirewallD on a Debian router : can't forward any packets FirewallD on a Debian router : can't forward any packetsu/realkikinovak•16 days agoFirewallD on a Debian router : can't forward any packetsHi,I'm currently replacing Rocky Linux 8 on a routerboard in my office by Debian 13, and I have some trouble getting packet forwarding working with FirewallD.Side note: to keep things simple, I'm working directly asrootin the examples below.ConfigurationThe routerboard has two NICs,enp1s0(192.168.2.251) andenp2s0(192.168.3.1).I have setup a sandbox PC with a static 192.168.3.10 address and using 192.168.3.1 as gateway just to test packet forwarding.Old setup under Rocky Linux 8Here's how the default setup looked like under Rocky Linux 8:# firewall-cmd --list-all public (active)   target: default   icmp-block-inversion: no   interfaces: enp1s0 enp2s0   sources:   services: cockpit dhcpv6-client ssh   ports:   protocols:   forward: no   masquerade: no   forward-ports:   source-ports:   icmp-blocks:   rich rules:I associated theenp1s0interface with theexternalzone:# firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=external --change-interface=enp1s0 The interface is under control of NetworkManager, setting zone to 'external'. success # firewall-cmd --reload success # firewall-cmd --list-all --zone=external external (active)   target: default   icmp-block-inversion: no   interfaces: enp1s0   sources:   services: ssh   ports:   protocols:   forward: no   masquerade: yes   forward-ports:   source-ports:   icmp-blocks:   rich rules:And then I associated theenp2s0interface with theinternalzone and declared it as default:# firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=internal --change-interface=enp2s0 The interface is under control of NetworkManager, setting zone to 'internal'. success # firewall-cmd --set-default-zone=internal success # firewall-cmd --reload success # firewall-cmd --list-all internal (active)   target: default   icmp-block-inversion: no   interfaces: enp2s0   sources:   services: cockpit dhcpv6-client mdns samba-client ssh   ports:   protocols:   forward: no   masquerade: no   forward-ports:   source-ports:   icmp-blocks:   rich rules:And that was all I had to do. Starting from there I could open a session on my 192.168.3.10 sandbox host and successfully ping 192.168.3.1 as well as 192.168.2.1. IP forwarding worked out of the box.New setup under Debian 13I wanted to use this same setup under Debian 13. So first I installed FirewallD:# apt update && apt install -y firewalldThe service gets started automatically, no need to take care of that.In Debian's default configuration, theexternalzone is not associated to anything:# firewall-cmd --list-all --zone=external external   target: default   ingress-priority: 0   egress-priority: 0   icmp-block-inversion: no   interfaces:   sources:   services: ssh   ports:   protocols:   forward: yes   masquerade: yes   forward-ports:   source-ports:   icmp-blocks:   rich rules:So I'll associate theenp1s0interface to that zone:# firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=external --change-interface=enp1s0 success # firewall-cmd --reload success # firewall-cmd --list-all --zone=external external (active)   target: default   ingress-priority: 0   egress-priority: 0   icmp-block-inversion: no   interfaces: enp1s0   sources:   services: ssh   ports:   protocols:   forward: yes   masquerade: yes   forward-ports:   source-ports:   icmp-blocks:   rich rules:Conversely, I'll associate theenp2s0interface to theinternalzone and set it as default like I did on my old setup:# firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=internal --change-interface=enp2s0 success # firewall-cmd --set-default-zone=internal success # firewall-cmd --reload success # firewall-cmd --list-all internal (default, active)   target: default   ingress-priority: 0   egress-priority: 0   icmp-block-inversion: no   interfaces: enp2s0   sources:   services: dhcpv6-client mdns samba-client ssh   ports:   protocols:   forward: yes   masquerade: no   forward-ports:   source-ports:   icmp-blocks:   rich rules:I open a session on my sandbox client with a static 192.168.3.10 IP address and 192.168.3.1 defined as the gateway. I can ping my routerboard OK:$ ping -c 1 -q 192.168.3.1 PING 192.168.3.1 (192.168.3.1) 56(84) bytes of data.  --- 192.168.3.1 ping statistics --- 1 packets transmitted, 1 received, 0% packet loss, time 0ms rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 0.387/0.387/0.387/0.000 msUnfortunately I can't ping anything on the outside:$ ping 192.168.2.1 PING 192.168.2.1 (192.168.2.1) 56(84) bytes of data. From 192.168.3.1 icmp_seq=1 Packet filtered From 192.168.3.1 icmp_seq=2 Packet filtered From 192.168.3.1 icmp_seq=3 Packet filtered From 192.168.3.1 icmp_seq=4 Packet filtered ^C --- 192.168.2.1 ping statistics --- 4 packets transmitted, 0 received, +4 errors, 100% packet loss, time 3069msAny suggestions ?Cheers from the sunny South of France,Niki
Update Desktop on my Debian (: Update Desktop on my Debian (:u/Character-Split-8003•8 days agoUpdate Desktop on my Debian (:
Fresh Trixie install, no Ethernet connection? Fresh Trixie install, no Ethernet connection?u/chimaeraUndying•6 days agoFresh Trixie install, no Ethernet connection?I will preface that I am new to Debian and relatively unfamiliar with Linux more broadly, so I might be missing something extraordinarily obvious. I've spent a couple hours researching and troubleshooting this, though, and gotten nowhere.This is did-it-earlier-today-fresh, 13.3.0 amd64.The install process connected to wifi fine (which continues to work after completing the installation), but didn't even give an option for an ethernet connection, despite the cable being plugged in. I've also confirmed that other (non-Debian) computers can connect using that cable in its current state.lspcishows the following, so it seemsawarethat there's the tantalizing possibility of wired internet access:Network controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8822CE 802.11ac PCIe Wireless Network AdapterEthernet controller: [ibid.] RTL8125 2.5GbE Controller (rev 0c)The interfaces file in /etc/network's uncommented content is (as far as I can tell, the default configuration of)source /etc/network/interfaces.d/*auto loiface lo inet loopback(the source directory is empty)ip addrprovides:1: lo: <LOOPBACK,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 65536 qdusc noqueue state UNKNOWN group default qlen 1000link/loopback 00:00:00:00:00:00 brd 00:00:00:00:00:00inet 127.0.0.1/8 scope host lovalid_lft forever preferred_lft foreverinet6 ::1/128 scope host noprefixroutevalid_lft forever preferred_lft forever2: wlp1s0 <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc noqueue state UP group default qlen 1000link/ether 0c:cd:e4:1a:9a:63 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ffaltname wlx0ccdb41a9b61inet 192.168.1.140/24 brd 192.168.1.255 scope global dynamic noprefixroute wlp1s0valid_lft 85885sec preferred_lft 85885secinet6 fe80::ecd:b4ff:fe7a:9c6f/64 scope link noprefixroutevalid_lft forever preferred_lft forevernmcliprovides:wlp1s0: connected to [wifi]"Realtek RTL8822CE"wifi (rtw_8822ce) 0C:CD:E4:1A:9A:63, hw, mtu 1500ip4 defaultinet4 192.168.1.140/24route4 192.168.1.0/24 metric 600route4 default via route4 192.168.1.1 metric 600inet6 fe80::ecd:b4ff:fe7a:9c6f/64route6 fe80::/64 metric 1024lo: connected (externally) to loloopback (unknown), 00:00:00:00:00:00, sw, mtu 65536inet4 127.0.0.1/8inet6 ::1/128DNS configuration:servers: 192.168.1.1domains: [one from the ISP]interface: wlp1s0
State of Debian on Snapdragon X Elite? State of Debian on Snapdragon X Elite?u/PXaZ•7 days agoState of Debian on Snapdragon X Elite?Given the ongoing demise of my ancient Dell XPS 9550 (keys not registering, fans lurching, headphones no longer connecting, etc.) I'm eying the Thinkpad T14s gen6 with the Snapdragon X Elite platform.I'm curious if anyone can report on the state of Debian on that Thinkpad model in particular, or Snapdragon X Elite laptops in general?I'm running Trixie on the Dell, but am open to running testing or unstable if need be. Current laptop has broken speakers, useless webcam, etc. so I don't need everything to be perfect to make it worth a switch.My motivation is mostly to get in on the future, which seems to be leaning ARM lately.I want to be back on Thinkpad for the trackpoint and the better Linux firmware situation.Thanks in advance
How to make the system boot to the Screen lock Instead of the Login manager or the desktop like the android phones How to make the system boot to the Screen lock Instead of the Login manager or the desktop like the android phonesu/Ztsosara•16 days agoHow to make the system boot to the Screen lock Instead of the Login manager or the desktop like the android phonesHow to make the system boot to the Screen lock Instead of the Login manager or the desktop like the android phonesr/kde•16 days agoHow to make the system boot to the Screen lock Instead of the Login manager or the desktop like the android phonescreate .sh file name it as want i will name itLockOnBoot.shand add this inside it!/bin/bashTrigger the lock screen immediatelyloginctl lock-sessionFallback loop (silent) just in casefor i in {1..5}; do [ "$(loginctl show-session self -p Locked --value)" = "yes" ] && exit 0 sleep 0.2 loginctl lock-session doneThen make it executable, then add it to the startup folder or add it from the KDE startup page or any app to manage the startup apps.2upvotes·26comments
Is there a way to install debian on a second Harddrive using only my computer running debian? Is there a way to install debian on a second Harddrive using only my computer running debian?u/DareDevilino•2 days agoIs there a way to install debian on a second Harddrive using only my computer running debian?my laptop has only 3 usb ports, and I want to install debian on a external drive (usb). Counting my mouse and keyboard, there is no room for the bootable stick.The notebook hd is a bit hard to acess, so I don't want to dismantle the external exchange both.I'm pretty sure there is a way to do that, but I'm not finding it on the internet.
How to lower the screen bright below 10%? How to lower the screen bright below 10%?u/Finnhp01•16 days agoHow to lower the screen bright below 10%?I've attempted using brightnessctl set 1% and it works fine, maybe i can add a shortcut for it later...I'm trying to figure out why the Display brightness scroller from the power manager won't move lower than 11-10% and why the lower-brightness button on my keyboard does lower the bright but it sets it to 0% lmao, it jumps from 10 to 0 instantly...I tried to changing the Brightness step count in the power manager but apparently won't work, it's also funny because I can set a number from 2-100 which both doesn't make much sense and also doesn't change a thingSomeone has a better solution or explanation? I'll be making the shortcut now
Standard Debian installation under WSL Standard Debian installation under WSLu/Sataniel98•16 days agoStandard Debian installation under WSLWSL installs Debian in a non-standard pre-configuration by default. The packages and configs are not the same. The sources.list file for example includes backports and no sources out of the box, which is probably what most people would change to be like this first thing but it raises questions what else they've fiddled with for seemingly no reason and I'd prefer just not to deal with surprises. Is there a way to install Debian on WSL in a way that lets you start with a standard installation?
KDE Plasma (Wayland) windows don’t fit content — visible gaps showing wallpaper KDE Plasma (Wayland) windows don’t fit content — visible gaps showing wallpaperu/szil5•5 days agoKDE Plasma (Wayland) windows don’t fit content — visible gaps showing wallpaper
Of Debian Of Debianu/Business_Cod_1818•14 days agoOf Debian
This is how to fix X11/XWayland cursor under Wayland session This is how to fix X11/XWayland cursor under Wayland sessionu/Ztsosara•16 days agoThis is how to fix X11/XWayland cursor under Wayland sessionThis is how to fix X11/XWayland cursor under Wayland sessionr/kde•16 days agoThis is how to fix X11/XWayland cursor under Wayland sessionOpen or create this file with any text editor or the nano in the terminal/etc/environmentand add thisInherits=Your-Cursor-Theme-Name XCURSOR_SIZE=2411upvotes·12comments
Configuring trixie as a WAP Configuring trixie as a WAPu/SpareSimian•16 days agoConfiguring trixie as a WAPI'm trying to set up a trixie-based system as a WAP (not a router! it's a node within the LAN) but I can't figure out the nmcli invocations to convert it from a hardwire-only system to a bridged system with wifi. I'd like the bridge to take its settings from DHCP.I have both a hard-wired connection, enp1s0, and a wireless wlp2s0. It normally runs headless and I've been managing it with ssh, but I'm having to go sit at the box as I try to get the network bridging figured out.I've got hostapd configured and I can connect to the AP from my phone until it realized it can't get a DHCP assignment. So the wifi link works.I want to assign the WAP's network settings with DHCP so I don't have to manually copy them from the box running the Kea DHCP server if I change the network setup. But I haven't figured out the nmcli invocations that put the hardwired interface and the wifi interface into a bridge with the MAC address inherited from the hardwire interface (so Kea will assign it the same fixed address that it's been using without wifi enabled).I was following this howto with "Method 2" but at the moment the box is not soliciting a DHCP address at bootup and I fear I've fouled things up badly and need to rip out all the "connections" and start fresh.https://steelywing.github.io/note/blog/AP%20Bridge%20in%20Linux/Is there a good explanation available that covers bridging with Network Manager? Should I give up on NM and switch to /etc/network/interfaces? I've been driving Red Hat systems since the 90s by command line and can adapt to anything.
Fix with ncurses-base:amd64 Fix with ncurses-base:amd64u/Which_Mind_3990•16 days agoFix with ncurses-base:amd64Hi, I try install neovim in debian WSL usingsudo apt install neovimbut, the shell show me this fix:Solving dependencies... Error!Some packages could not be installed. This may mean that you haverequested an impossible situation or if you are using the unstabledistribution that some required packages have not yet been createdor been moved out of Incoming.The following information may help to resolve the situation:Unsatisfied dependencies:ncurses-base : Breaks: neovim (< 0.6.0) but 0.1.7-4+deb9u1 is to be installedError: Error, pkgProblemResolver::Resolve generated breaks, this may be caused by held packages.Error: The following information from --solver 3.0 may provide additional context:Unable to satisfy dependencies. Reached two conflicting decisions:1. ncurses-base:amd64=6.5+20250216-2 is selected for install because:1. ncurses-base:amd64 is selected for install2. ncurses-base:amd64 is available in versions 6.5+20250216-2, 6.0+20161126-1+deb9u2[selected ncurses-base:amd64]For context, additional choices that could not be installed:* In ncurses-base:amd64 is available in versions 6.5+20250216-2, 6.0+20161126-1+deb9u2:- ncurses-base:amd64=6.0+20161126-1+deb9u2 is not selected for install2. ncurses-base:amd64=6.5+20250216-2 is not selected for install because:1. neovim:amd64=0.1.7-4+deb9u1 is selected for install2. ncurses-base:amd64=6.5+20250216-2 Breaks neovim (< 0.6.0),I try delete the package ncurses for install again but the program not allow me make this action, so, I don't now what hapend here.this is the information of my debian distro.
Debian 13 Trixie (2025) on a HP Chromebook 11 G5 (Setzer) (2016-2017) Debian 13 Trixie (2025) on a HP Chromebook 11 G5 (Setzer) (2016-2017)u/Forsaken-Dentist-889•11 days agoDebian 13 Trixie (2025) on a HP Chromebook 11 G5 (Setzer) (2016-2017)
My Debian 13 desktop with Gnome My Debian 13 desktop with Gnomeu/nuxster•21 days agoMy Debian 13 desktop with Gnome
Anyone else running into trouble with PlayOnLinux on Debian? Anyone else running into trouble with PlayOnLinux on Debian?u/Witherscorch•5 days agoAnyone else running into trouble with PlayOnLinux on Debian?Hey all. I recently started running into issues with PlayOnLinux. Whenever I try to launch an exe, it silently fails. I tried launching it by calling flatpak from the terminal, and whenever I try running an exe I geterr:module:find_forwarded_export module not found for forward 'cryptbase.SystemFunction036' used by L"C:\\windows\\system32\\advapi32.dll"as an error. I have no familiarity with wine, so I don't even know where to begin with this.For the record, I searched online and found the following threads:https://github.com/vinegarhq/vinegar/issues/648https://forum.winehq.org/viewtopic.php?t=40206https://github.com/cryinkfly/Autodesk-Fusion-360-for-Linux/issues/540Also, I have no issues when executing an exe directly from the command line using wine, it's only when I use POL that issues arise.Running on Debian Trixie, with Wine version 10.0. DE is KDE Plasma 6.3.6
Problem with grub Problem with grubu/Distinct_Tip8912•16 days agoProblem with grub
Restore the old installation Restore the old installationu/Hour_Tune_708•5 days agoRestore the old installationHello. I've made a huge rookie mistake. I did a fresh install of Debian 12 without backing up the old installation. I created a program that was running on Debian 12 from the old installation. Is there any way to restore the work and files created from the old installation?
HEVC encoding question HEVC encoding questionu/FirefighterFickle456•5 days agoHEVC encoding questionI'm running openmediavault 8 (debian 13) on a mini pc with an intel 8500T CPU and integrated UHD 630 gpu. Running jellyfin with docker has generally been a good experience, except when the files are HEVC and jellyfin need to transcode them. I have setup hardware acceleration and checking intel_gpu_top does show gpu usage when this is happening but the fps are quite low.After a lot of looking around, it looks like the issue is that the hardware decoding works fine, but the encoding is done on software rather than hardware.While searching for a solution online I believe I understood that the drivers for Debian 13 only support HEVC decoding and not encoding. Is this true? can this be fixed? Apparently other distros (Ubuntu) do not have that limitation?Setup:OS: Debian GNU/Linux 13.3 (trixie) x86_64Host: HP ProDesk 400 G4 DMKernel: Linux 6.12.63+deb13-amd64CPU: Intel(R) Core(TM) i5-8500T (6) @ 3.50 GHzGPU: Intel UHD Graphics 630 @ 1.10 GHz [Integrat]This is the ouput of vainfo:libva info: VA-API version 1.17.0 libva info: Trying to open /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/dri/iHD_drv_video.so libva info: Found init function __vaDriverInit_1_17 libva info: va_openDriver() returns 0 vainfo: VA-API version: 1.17 (libva 2.12.0) vainfo: Driver version: Intel iHD driver for Intel(R) Gen Graphics - 23.1.1 () vainfo: Supported profile and entrypoints       VAProfileMPEG2Simple            :	VAEntrypointVLD       VAProfileMPEG2Main              :	VAEntrypointVLD       VAProfileH264Main               :	VAEntrypointVLD       VAProfileH264Main               :	VAEntrypointEncSliceLP       VAProfileH264High               :	VAEntrypointVLD       VAProfileH264High               :	VAEntrypointEncSliceLP       VAProfileJPEGBaseline           :	VAEntrypointVLD       VAProfileJPEGBaseline           :	VAEntrypointEncPicture       VAProfileH264ConstrainedBaseline:	VAEntrypointVLD       VAProfileH264ConstrainedBaseline:	VAEntrypointEncSliceLP       VAProfileVP8Version0_3          :	VAEntrypointVLD       VAProfileHEVCMain               :	VAEntrypointVLD       VAProfileHEVCMain10             :	VAEntrypointVLD       VAProfileVP9Profile0            :	VAEntrypointVLD       VAProfileVP9Profile2            :	VAEntrypointVLD
What are the reasons i shouldnt use Debian as a beginner? What are the reasons i shouldnt use Debian as a beginner?u/SkabeAbe•1 mo. agoWhat are the reasons i shouldnt use Debian as a beginner?I hear that i should stick with mint and that Debian is not for beginners. How come? I have been on Debian for two years now and havent had problems. Am i just lucky? I only use it for browser tasks and writing.
Video playback issues on Firefox and Chromium Video playback issues on Firefox and Chromiumu/GlobalAsparagus186•16 days agoVideo playback issues on Firefox and ChromiumFor the past three days or so, I have not been able to run any videos, YouTube or otherwise, on Firefox. Today, I also noticed that playing sounds seems to be a problem as well, for instance when an e-mail arrives, Firefox is unable to create an audible sound. The same goes for Chromium. But no problem if I play video files locally, but music files no longer work either.I use KDE on Debian:Operating System: Debian GNU/Linux (Sid)KDE Plasma Version: 6.5.4KDE Frameworks Version: 6.20.0Qt Version: 6.9.2Kernel Version: 6.18.5+deb14-amd64 (64-bit)Graphics Platform: WaylandGraphics Processor: Intel® HD Graphics 4400Vague question, I know, but any ideas what could be wrong or what I could look for? Firmware and similar seem to be OK. What else can I look for?
GnomeDesktop-3.0 GIR file not found GnomeDesktop-3.0 GIR file not foundu/Interesting_Air3283•16 days agoGnomeDesktop-3.0 GIR file not found[SOLVED] I got this error instantly after installing "Desktop Icons NG (DING)" Gnome extension. Idk what is this. I have Debian 13 (Gnome).
What made you use Debian? What made you use Debian?u/bsensikimori•2 days agoWhat made you use Debian?
First attempt at dist-upgrade (Trixie) First attempt at dist-upgrade (Trixie)u/anselmus_•5 days agoFirst attempt at dist-upgrade (Trixie)An enjoyable hour of panic, betrayal, and tears. Came this close to just copying my data and doing a clean install like the loser I always am. First the updater froze at a routine y/n prompt with keyboard no longer working, so rebooted. The system then refused to boot. Had to learn what recovery mode was and how to use it (fortunately already had a Debian cd). Apt update was still failing with errors which had something to do with the new kernel. Finally remembered I was using the rt kernel before so installing that instead worked. Rest of the install went without a hitch.
Java update killed it, need a how-to Java update killed it, need a how-tou/924gtr•16 days agoJava update killed it, need a how-toI updated to openjdk 21.0.10 and I need to go back to the last available version.  sudo apt install openjdk-21-.......version?
Can I install hyprland on my debian? Can I install hyprland on my debian?u/EarlyBrief2131•17 days agoCan I install hyprland on my debian?
Hauppauge HDPVR on Debian 13 Hauppauge HDPVR on Debian 13u/OGbugsy•2 days agoHauppauge HDPVR on Debian 13Hello,I'm fairly new to Linux in general, and very new to Debian specifically.  I'm trying to switch from Windows to Debian 13 and I can't figure out how to install drivers for my Hauppauge HDPVR2 devices.  I installed Hardinfo2 and I can see the devices listed correctly under the USB node, but there is no driver installed.I found these instructions for Ubuntu but they obviously don't work as written for Deb.Can anyone help me out?
Apple + Phone = Phone turns Apple into Debian??? Apple + Phone = Phone turns Apple into Debian???u/Inderastein•23 days agoApple + Phone = Phone turns Apple into Debian???
My Debian Desktop My Debian Desktopu/DaleFranks•22 days agoMy Debian Desktop
Is debian a good starter distro? Is debian a good starter distro?u/LazyRemz•13 days agoIs debian a good starter distro?Hello, i've been researching about linux and dual booting. I took distrochooser but it keeps giving me openSUSE and Zorin.Is this will be a good distro for beginners?I wanna ask:Undervolting GPU, i heard linux has a hard time installing gpu drivers. I have an nvidia gpu and want to undervolt it like in msi afterburner. Is that possible?Gaming, i know there is protondb and stuff but i wanna know if there are any actual good difference between gaming in linux and windows.And yes, i can look up for fixes and guides like in wiki debian and how to linux.That is all, thank you for any advice and answers!
Web file upload issue. Web file upload issue.u/Kevvo16•16 days agoWeb file upload issue.I have a real problem with Debian. On windows I could upload a file to a website from a web URL. On Debian I can only upload files from my computer. Is there a way to do this?
I am a newbie to Linux coming from Micro$hit but please dont kill of x11 untill Wayland has full remote screen control I am a newbie to Linux coming from Micro$hit but please dont kill of x11 untill Wayland has full remote screen controlu/as7roboy•17 days agoI am a newbie to Linux coming from Micro$hit but please dont kill of x11 untill Wayland has full remote screen controlAs mentioned in my title, I am a newbie, so please don't flame me for not knowing things. But from what I understand and have learnt is that there is so many distros now killing off support from x11 which is stable and just works in favor of Wayland desktop which I completely agree is a better solution and we need to move forward with. BUTTTTTTTTTTTTT, here is the thing any distro I have tried that is Wayland first DOES NOT full support remote control, remote screen control like x11 does. Example I use Rustdesk for my job on a daily basis and it only works on x11 does not work on Wayland there is no software that does full remote support control for Wayland as from what I know it does not fully support it yet.So the bigger question is if this is the case, then Why TF are they dropping support for x11 so soon, They need to fix everything and get everything working first in Wayland before they drop x11 support. This is not rocket science it just feels that the sheep are following the Shepherd.If I am wrong in any of what I have mentioned then please enlighten me I am currently using Ubuntu 24.04 LTS pro and use Rustdesk as my main Remote support tool.
Lutris Vulkan Erorr Lutris Vulkan Erorru/AsAsin18•17 days agoLutris Vulkan Erorr
Is Debian supposed to be this strict and locked down? Is Debian supposed to be this strict and locked down?u/BoxFar6969•2 days agoIs Debian supposed to be this strict and locked down?I feel like I'm constantly fighting the operating system to do what I need.When I first installed it I needed to do something with sudo. I realized my user was not a sudoer, so I tried to make it one. That took so, so long for some reason. I would do the necessary commands, no errors, and then they would just not work. I discovered I needed to refresh something (forgive my ambiguity, I'm a new linux user so I don't know half of these things) and THEN it worked. And now a few weeks later I realize my user is not a sudoer again.Second example, I installed Arch but something had gone wrong with the EFI partition so I needed to examine it. I preferred using file managers to view it as my eye picks up on things more quickly with a good GUI. On Windows it was easy enough, a little tedious but I could do it. I wanted to learn how to do it on Debian, as I've been wanting to fully switch to Linux anyway. Tell me why the OS was fighting me so badly. Firstly, I noticed that there was no way I could view the root folders from the sidebar (or so I think, please correct me if there is a way). A bit annoying, but whatever. I tried to sudo nautilus, the OS was like "erm actually you cant use that, use admin:// (or something) instead". OK, I type that command instead. The command fails, there are errors. Alright, I try to sudo other file managers I have installed. THE OS CRASHES. Off to Google I go. I type /boot/EFI/ in the directory of nautilus, and the OS is like "erm you dont have permission to view that!!!" JUST LET ME DO WHAT I NEED. It's my computer, please, I need to do my work. Turns out it won't let me access the folder through the address, but it will let me access it if I click the folder from /boot/. Just, why? Why was Windows less of a control freak than Linux?? I felt like I didn't own my computer.
Debian urgently needs new volunteers for the Data Protection Team (privacy/GDPR) Debian urgently needs new volunteers for the Data Protection Team (privacy/GDPR)u/turok2•22 days agoDebian urgently needs new volunteers for the Data Protection Team (privacy/GDPR)https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-announce/2026/01/msg00001.html
Lenovo g50-80, no wi-fi drivers and the dgpu is not working Lenovo g50-80, no wi-fi drivers and the dgpu is not workingu/Verwega•2 days agoLenovo g50-80, no wi-fi drivers and the dgpu is not workingwi-fiBroadcom BCM43142 driver: N/A chip-ID: 14e4:4365GPUGPU 1:  AMD Radeon R5 M330 [Discrete] GPU 2: Intel Haswell-ULT Integrated Graphics Controller @ 0.95 GHz [Inegrated]When I try to use Furmark it only shows me intel graphics and llvmpipeDebian 13
Freeze debian Freeze debianu/Maite86•2 days agoFreeze debianHi everyone!I'm posting this because of a persistent problem I'm having with my Debian system!I have Debian 13 KDE with the following specs:i9 9900k32 GB of RAMNvidia GeForce RTX 4060ti (nvidia-drivers installed, not the free version)My issue is this: whenever a KDE notification appears, whenever I open Heroic Launcher (with Battle.net), etc., my entire PC freezes.Do you have any suggestions or solutions to fix this?Have a good evening and thanks in advance for your help!
No wifi on Lenovo Legion No wifi on Lenovo Legionu/Interesting_Air3283•17 days agoNo wifi on Lenovo LegionMy friend has Lenovo Legion 7i gen 10 (2025), he just installed debian (gnome), but he has no wifi.
Balck screen after login with external monitor - Debian 13 KDE Balck screen after login with external monitor - Debian 13 KDEu/S1e0rdk•17 days agoBalck screen after login with external monitor - Debian 13 KDEHi,Please help me.I installed Debian 13 with KDE and I have a strange screen problem.I don’t have AMD or NVIDIA graphics, only Intel integrated.I use an external monitor connected via HDMI to a Lenovo laptop.The laptop lid is closed, and in Power Management I enabled this setting:When laptop lid is closed -> Turn off screen (even when an external monitor is connected).Now the problem:When the external screen wakes up from sleep or when I reboot the system with:- external monitor connected- laptop screen closed and turned offI can see SDDM login screen on the external monitor and I can log in normally.But after login, I get a black screen:- wallpaper is gone- KDE panel is goneHowever, the system is not frozen:- I can press SUPER key- application menu opens- windows can be openedIf I log out and log in again, everything comes back (Wallpaper and a panel).Edit: When I uncheck the box (even when an external monitor is connected), everything starting to work as usual.
Nvidia on Wayland: interesting wiki update Nvidia on Wayland: interesting wiki updateu/SmallTimeMiner_XNV•4 days agoNvidia on Wayland: interesting wiki updateI just noticed that the Debian wiki re Nvidia and Wayland was changed:https://wiki.debian.org/NvidiaGraphicsDrivers#Wayland_configurationThe fix is a bit different now, but the most interesting part is this comment:Warning:enabling NVreg_PreserveVideoMemoryAllocations will cause the driver to malfunction on laptops with Optimus hybrid graphics.I do have this fix in place on a laptop with hybrid graphics (Nvidia/AMD) and it was absolutely needed to get Wayland working. However, I don't notice any "malfunctioning" - except for the fact that suspend / resume doesn't work, which didn't surprise me too much as the hardware only supports s2idle (no deep).However, I'm now wondering whether the suspend issues could have something to do with nvreg_preserve.Would be interesting to hear others' experience with this or any points I might miss (this is my first Nvidia machine, so don't have a lot of experience)...
DaVinci Resolve not launching after install, and unable to install the correct dependencies DaVinci Resolve not launching after install, and unable to install the correct dependenciesu/mysticjazzius•17 days agoDaVinci Resolve not launching after install, and unable to install the correct dependenciesSo I installed DaVinci Resolve recently on Trixie, and while I have experience working with Resolve on Windows, I have never tried using it on Linux before. While I was able to get most of the dependencies installed, I ended up skippinglibapr1 libaprutil1 libasound2 libglib2.0-0, as apt implies:Note, selecting 'libapr1t64' instead of 'libapr1'libapr1t64 is already the newest version (1.7.5-1).(It does this EXACT same thing for all of the packages by the way)So seeing that similar versions of these packages were installed, I used the flag to skip the package check at the time of install, and that was fine, but while the other programs that come with Resolve launch, the base program won't launch. I will click on it and I will get a spinning wheel, and then it just closes.So what I want to know is, does this problem actuallyactually have to do with the packages?And if it does have to do with these packages, how can I force apt to install the versions Resolve wants?Or if that's not the case, what else can I try that will allow this program to start?For people wondering, my system specs are:Trixie w/ Kernel 6.12.63AMD Ryzen 7 5800X16GB RAMGeForce GTX 1080 w/ Dedicated Drivers Installed
How to get last version of package before it was removed? How to get last version of package before it was removed?u/AM27C256•6 days agoHow to get last version of package before it was removed?How can one find the deb. of the last version of a package before it was removed from Debian? E.g. one might like the crude humour of fortunes-off, or one might want to just play warzone2100 not caring that the package needs cmake 3 to build and doesn't build with current cmake 4, etc.
Laptop draining more battery, help me spot the problem Laptop draining more battery, help me spot the problemu/giquo•17 days agoLaptop draining more battery, help me spot the problemHello fellow debian users.I just hop into debian this sunday and I really want to fond my house here, in this iteration came from Mint for 3 Months, and changed to Fedora bcus I want Gnome, but 49 has Wayland only and doesn't support Rust Desk unnatended access, along with other small thingies which I didn't liked that much.Debian seems perfect and I just started 2 days ago, what bugs me now is that battery is draining twice as fast and the PC is getting really hot again (thing that Mint and Fedora solved from my escape from Windows)All I know is that I haven't finished configuring NVIDIA drivers for a GTX 1650could be that? I guess I executed the wrong commands too.Ty in advance
I feel like a rebel after using X11 instead of Wayland. I feel like a rebel after using X11 instead of Wayland.u/FoundationOk3176•10 days agoI feel like a rebel after using X11 instead of Wayland.I'm in love with this beautiful E7270r/latitude•10 days agoI'm in love with this beautiful E727010upvotes·18comments
PowerPC Mac Emulation on Debian PowerPC Mac Emulation on Debianu/capellan2000•18 days agoPowerPC Mac Emulation on DebianGreetings! This is my first post in this subreddit. My name is ALHopefully, you will give a hint to find a solution for the problem that I found:PowerPC emulation software (named SheepShaver) crashed while trying to open a file inside the emulation (not opening from an external disk, not opening from any of debian Home directories)After this hard crash, any file that is copied from inside the Emulation to an external disk, or any of debian Home directories is LOCKED... and when I use the Properties window to unlock it, appears the message "Only the owner can edit these permissions"This message only appeared in copied files after the hard crash of the application "SheepShaver", never appeared before.Why this is happening suddenly?Thanks in advance!AL
Raspberry Pi as a media center + retro gaming: which model is best? (I use Debian) Raspberry Pi as a media center + retro gaming: which model is best? (I use Debian)u/diri88•3 days agoRaspberry Pi as a media center + retro gaming: which model is best? (I use Debian)Hi everyone, I'm considering building an all-in-one setup using Debian on a Raspberry Pi and would like some advice from the community.The idea is this:Media center: Use Kodi to watch movies and series from an external drive.Retro gaming: Run Game Boy, GBA, PS1, and N64 emulators.Controller: Use a Bluetooth controller like a DualShock 4/5 or similar.TV remote control: Control Kodi directly with your TV remote via HDMI-CEC, without having to use apps or other remote controls.I'm wondering: is a Raspberry Pi (4 or 5) enough for all this? Are there any performance issues with more demanding emulators, controller compatibility, or HDMI-CEC support?Alternatively, is it worth switching to a mini PC?If we stick with the Raspberry Pi, which model and how much RAM would you recommend for smooth Kodi and trouble-free games?I'd love to hear real-world experiences: those who use it as a media center + retro gaming rig with Debian, what works well, what's problematic, and recommendations on the model, RAM, and useful accessories.Thanks in advance to anyone who replies.
Is there any way I can install dwarfs on Trixie Is there any way I can install dwarfs on Trixieu/mignastur•18 days agoIs there any way I can install dwarfs on TrixieI need dwarfs in order to run a file in the respective format. It is not available in apt qnd the only tool similar that I could find was dwarves, which is used for debugging and does not help me. Thank you
Primary Monitor Flashes Black Every 20min on Wayland (Old Drivers?) Primary Monitor Flashes Black Every 20min on Wayland (Old Drivers?)u/Wolfestain•18 days agoPrimary Monitor Flashes Black Every 20min on Wayland (Old Drivers?)I’ve been usingWaylandfor my entire Linux journey and it’s been mostly smooth. However, I’ve run into an annoying issue: every ~20 minutes, myprimary monitor goes black for about a second. The sound keeps playing, inputs still work, and my secondary display (a TV) continues working perfectly.It’s still manageable for use and doesn’t bother me much, but it becomes really annoying during movie scenes or during ranked games.So far I have tried changing the refresh rate and tweaking with the display settings but it didn't help.I think the source of the problem comes from using old drivers (550.163.01). I installed them via debian official documentation on stable branch, close source drivers.My setup:Debian 13 (stable) with GNOME on SSDGTX 1060 6GB, Intel i7-4790, 16GB DDR3Primary monitor: 1080p 165Hz BenQ via DisplayPortSecondary monitor: TV via HDMIAny suggestions would be appreciated :DPS: I only use my TV for sound output via HDMI and to display its wallpaper. I don’t use it for work or anything else.
Gnome suddenly logged out Gnome suddenly logged outu/R_y-a_n-•18 days agoGnome suddenly logged outGnome suddenly logged outr/gnome•18 days agoGnome suddenly logged outi use debian 13 gnome wayland. My laptop has nvidia gpu .                                                                             is logout reason extensions . i use this extensions :                                                                                gnome-extensions list --enabledlaunch-new-instance@gnome-shell-extensions.gcampax.github.comclipboard-history@alexsaveau.devjust-perfection-desktop@just-perfectionkiwimenu@kemmakiwi@kemmadash-to-panel@jderose9.github.comBluetooth-Battery-Meter@maniacx.github.comCoverflowAltTab@palatis.blogspot.commediacontrols@cliffniff.github.comsearch-light@icedman.github.comdesktop-cube@schneegans.github.comgsconnect@andyholmes.github.ioubuntu-appindicators@ubuntu.com2upvotes·14comments
Bad experience with the Calamares installer Bad experience with the Calamares installeru/One_Cable_7088•6 days agoBad experience with the Calamares installerAttempting to install Linux to my parents' old computer.First tried Linux Mint as it is generally considered beginner friendly. The installer did not display my hard disks (two) at all. Instead, it found the two data partitions on my custom USB stick which I use for my Linux images. Of course I didn't want to install Linux on it, so I abandoned Mint on that instant. (For some strange reason, it still offered to install the bootloader to the first HDD.)Then I tried Debian as it has always worked for me when other distros have failed. I had a Debian live image on the stick so I booted it and started the graphical Calamares installer. It detected my hard disks correctly. I made a Btrfs partition and installed Debian successfully. However, after rebooting there was only a blinking cursor and nothing else. No BIOS message about missing boot media so at least it tried to boot "something", but failed.Not sure what was the cause. If it can't install the system properly to a Btrfs partition, it should at least refuse to do so.Also not sure if the Mint installer is based on Calamares, but it had similar look at least. It felt very much dumbed down and useless for anything except very basic tasks.Next attempt will probably be Debian with the classic non GUI installer. It will hopefully not fail like this piece of trash.
libfuse2t64 not available on testing/forky. Should I use stable/trixie or unstable/sid for my "back"port? libfuse2t64 not available on testing/forky. Should I use stable/trixie or unstable/sid for my "back"port?u/SpecialPreference678•19 days agolibfuse2t64 not available on testing/forky. Should I use stable/trixie or unstable/sid for my "back"port?I have some programs which require libfuse2 for usage, despite libfuse3 already being installed.libfuse2t64is available in stable/trixie (2.9.9-9) and unstable/sid (2.9.9-9+b1), but not testing/forky. So I was going to create a backport for it.b1 sounds like it might be a beta version, in which case the unstable package may be even older than the stable package?  I'm not sure.Which one should I go with?
I can't find the wine executable I can't find the wine executableu/AsAsin18•18 days agoI can't find the wine executable
I built litecraft – a minimal debian-based linux distro I built litecraft – a minimal debian-based linux distrou/Just-Singer5224•9 days agoI built litecraft – a minimal debian-based linux distro
Rubiks Cube timer cross-platform - Linux app desktop Rubiks Cube timer cross-platform - Linux app desktopu/DeviceRecent3456•18 days agoRubiks Cube timer cross-platform - Linux app desktophttps://github.com/ezerfrlux/ezer-cube-timer/releases/tag/1.0.0
Multiple failure installing Debian 13 Multiple failure installing Debian 13u/EmotionalEstate8749•6 days agoMultiple failure installing Debian 13I have Dell Optiplex 9020, Core i7, 32 GiBI decided to lead with my heart and ditch Ubuntu for Debian 13.  I got all the way through the install, then when restarting my machine, it didn't ask me to remove teh install media. Then on restart I got some plain code - i didn't grab it, unfortunately.I ended up installing Fedora - I am happy enough with it - but it bugs me that I could not install Debian.I ran 'sudo dnf install inxi -y   inxi -Fxz' I hope the uotput is detailed enough without being too over the top.I don't know if anyone here might give me a clue what went wrong and if I might successfully get Debian 13 on it.Many thanks for any help I might get.System:Kernel: 6.18.7-200.fc43.x86_64 arch: x86_64 bits: 64 compiler: gcc v: 15.2.1Desktop: GNOME v: 49.3 Distro: Fedora Linux 43 (Workstation Edition)Machine:Type: Desktop System: Dell product: OptiPlex 9020 v: 00serial: <superuser required>Mobo: Dell model: 00V62H v: A01 serial: <superuser required>Firmware: UEFI vendor: Dell v: A23 date: 06/25/2018CPU:Info: quad core model: Intel Core i7-4790 bits: 64 type: MT MCParch: Haswell rev: 3 cache: L1: 256 KiB L2: 1024 KiB L3: 8 MiBSpeed (MHz): avg: 800 min/max: 800/4000 cores: 1: 800 2: 800 3: 800 4: 8005: 800 6: 800 7: 800 8: 800 bogomips: 57467Flags-basic: avx avx2 ht lm nx pae sse sse2 sse3 sse4_1 sse4_2 ssse3 vmxGraphics:Device-1: Intel Xeon E3-1200 v3/4th Gen Core Processor Integrated Graphicsvendor: Dell driver: i915 v: kernel arch: Gen-7.5 bus-ID: 00:02.0Display: wayland server:X.Orgv: 24.1.9 with: Xwayland v: 24.1.9compositor: gnome-shell driver: dri: crocus gpu: i915 resolution:1: 1920x1080~60Hz 2: 1920x1080~60HzAPI: OpenGL v: 4.6 vendor: intel mesa v: 25.2.7 glx-v: 1.4direct-render: yes renderer: Mesa Intel HD Graphics 4600 (HSW GT2)API: EGL Message: EGL data requires eglinfo. Check --recommends.Info: Tools: api: glxinfo x11: xdriinfo, xdpyinfo, xprop, xrandrAudio:Device-1: Intel Xeon E3-1200 v3/4th Gen Core Processor HD Audio vendor: Delldriver: snd_hda_intel v: kernel bus-ID: 00:03.0Device-2: Intel 8 Series/C220 Series High Definition Audio vendor: Delldriver: snd_hda_intel v: kernel bus-ID: 00:1b.0API: ALSA v: k6.18.7-200.fc43.x86_64 status: kernel-apiServer-1: PipeWire v: 1.4.10 status: activeNetwork:Device-1: Intel Ethernet I217-LM vendor: Dell driver: e1000e v: kernelport: f080 bus-ID: 00:19.0IF: eno1 state: down mac: <filter>Device-2: MediaTek MT7612U 802.11a/b/g/n/ac Wireless Adapterdriver: mt76x2u type: USB bus-ID: 4-2:3IF: wlp0s20u2 state: up mac: <filter>Drives:Local Storage: total: 1.38 TiB used: 87.58 GiB (6.2%)ID-1: /dev/sda model: SATA3 SSD 512GB size: 476.94 GiB temp: 23 CID-2: /dev/sdb vendor: Seagate model: ST1000DM003-1CH162 size: 931.51 GiBtemp: 21 CPartition:ID-1: / size: 64.37 GiB used: 59.04 GiB (91.7%) fs: ext4 dev: /dev/sda1ID-2: /boot/efi size: 511 MiB used: 34.5 MiB (6.8%) fs: vfatdev: /dev/sda3ID-3: /home size: 210.2 GiB used: 28.51 GiB (13.6%) fs: ext4dev: /dev/sda4Swap:ID-1: swap-1 type: zram size: 8 GiB used: 0 KiB (0.0%) dev: /dev/zram0Sensors:System Temperatures: cpu: 30.0 C mobo: N/AFan Speeds (rpm): N/AInfo:Memory: total: 32 GiB available: 31.24 GiB used: 6.7 GiB (21.4%)Processes: 409 Uptime: 2d 8h 50m Init: systemdPackages: 29 note: see --rpm Compilers: N/A Shell: Bash v: 5.3.0inxi: 3.3.40
Setting custom path in Debian 13 Setting custom path in Debian 13u/jwzumwalt•18 days agoSetting custom path in Debian 13I recently switched from Ubuntu to Debian. Ubuntu follows the industry standard of setting the terminal environment in .profile and .bashrc. It is astonishing that Debian is doing something else. I also tried /etc/login.def with no luck.So, were the H@#$ does Debian set each users terminal PATH / $PATH?This is the first and only bizarre behavior I have found in Debian so far... just hoping there are no more gotchas!I am using bash in XFCE and have the same behavior on a Desktop and Laptop.
[XFCE] xfce4-genmon-plugin now-playing script [XFCE] xfce4-genmon-plugin now-playing scriptu/le_flibustier8402•7 days ago[XFCE] xfce4-genmon-plugin now-playing scriptSharing with you my version of a xfce4-genmon-plugin now-playing script.Requirements :- your mediaplayer must have MPRIS support ;- playerctl as dependancie -sudo apt install playerctlfor debian-based distributions.It's a set of 2 scripts,genmon-nowplaying.shbeing the main one. I had to make a second script otherwise caracters like "&" are not supported (btw, if someone knows how to make it a single script, let me know).It's virtually universal, as your mediaplayer name (and icon) are stored in variables. Icon is clickable (switch between play and pause).How to set it before using with :(Install playerctl if it not installed) ;Opengenmon-nowplaying.shwith your favorite text editor ;Replace first "quodlibet" variable with your mediaplayer name (to get your mediaplayer name correctly, runplayerctl -lwhile it is running) ;Replace second "quodlibet" occurrence with the name of the icon of your mediaplayer ;Set the path where you will place the second script namedmetadata-mediaplayer.sh, save and close the script ;Now add a new genmon element to your panel, set the path for the main script and period (1s is enough)Hope it's useful to someone. I'm open to suggestions to improve it.Download :https://drive.proton.me/urls/XZG0607P5R#SIPiDc2R15pi
Reasons to use Debian? Reasons to use Debian?u/fedripx•2 days agoReasons to use Debian?I migrated to Linux three months ago, I started with Pop!_OS, then Arch, Mint, and stopped at Fedora + KDE.Honestly, I felt comfortable with Fedora, I didn't break anything, practically everything I need works. However, I know that Debian is like the "Father" of some distros, so I wanted to know if it's worth switching to it...I would use it mainly for programming and playing literally 3 games, Cyberpunk (sometimes), Megabonk, and Dead Cells.Just an addendum, my focus on Linux is more productivity than gaming.I have an RTX 2060 6GBRyzen 5600G16GB Ram DDR4 3400mhz
Browser-based Debian distro of Linux Browser-based Debian distro of Linuxu/Breakfastcrisis•28 days agoBrowser-based Debian distro of Linux
Help! Trixie upgrade killed my libc-bin Help! Trixie upgrade killed my libc-binu/Tetraden•3 days agoHelp! Trixie upgrade killed my libc-binHi, I'm kind of desperate, because of this.I tried to follow this guide:https://www.bjoerns-techblog.de/2025/08/upgrade-debian-bookworm-zu-trixie/apt upgrade --without-new-pkgs terminated with an error.Preparing to unpack .../libc6_2.41-12+deb13u1_amd64.deb ... Checking for services that may need to be restarted... Checking init scripts... Unpacking libc6:amd64 (2.41-12+deb13u1) over (2.36-9+deb12u13) ... Setting up libc6:amd64 (2.41-12+deb13u1) ... Checking for services that may need to be restarted... Checking init scripts... Nothing to restart. E: Sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg exited unexpectedly root@server:~# apt upgrade --without-new-pkgs Reading package lists... Done Building dependency tree... Done Illegal instructionmation... 0%From there on, everything related to apt just stops with  "Illegal istruction"root@server:~# dpkg --configure -a Setting up libc-l10n (2.41-12+deb13u1) ... dpkg: dependency problems prevent configuration of locales:  locales depends on libc-bin (>> 2.41); however:   Version of libc-bin on system is 2.36-9+deb12u13.  dpkg: error processing package locales (--configure):  dependency problems - leaving unconfigured Setting up libc-dev-bin (2.41-12+deb13u1) ... Processing triggers for man-db (2.11.2-2) ... dpkg: error processing package man-db (--configure):  installed man-db package post-installation script subprocess was killed by signal (Illegal instruction) dpkg: dependency problems prevent processing triggers for libc-bin:  libc-bin depends on libc6 (<< 2.37); however:   Version of libc6:amd64 on system is 2.41-12+deb13u1.  dpkg: error processing package libc-bin (--configure):  dependency problems - leaving triggers unprocessed Errors were encountered while processing:  locales  man-db  libc-bin root@server:~# apt upgrade Illegal instructionts... 16%Other instructions I found to fix it probably just made it worse. And these 3 packages are now seriously fucked.Is there anyone who can help me?
/boot/efi is empty after grub-install /boot/efi is empty after grub-installu/borsukrates•5 days ago/boot/efi is empty after grub-installHow to make my computer boot from NVME again? This is on Debian 13 Trixie, Asrock B550M Pro4 revision 1, Ryzen 5 5600X.My computer stopped booting, and we've found out that the EPS "partition" is missing. Even the subdirectory/boot/efiis empty. No idea when it happened. This is normally fixed by installing grub, more specificallygrub-install. The command "works" and reports no errors, but afterwards/boot/efiis still empty! What could be causing this? Any ideas? More details below, big picture first. No, restoring from backup won't easily fix it. No, older kernels from boot menu, or emergency/rescue mode, won't easily fix it. No, passing arguments to grub doesn't produce any difference.The way it breaks is after selecting a boot option, it freezes after the message:loading initial ramdisk...I try to fix it by booting from Live USB in UEFI mode, mounting partitions, chrooting to that and tryinginstall-grub. I also triedinstall-grub --removable.The relevant partitions in my system are like this:nvme0n1                         259:0    0 238.5G  0 disk   ├─nvme0n1p1                     259:1    0   953M  0 part   └─nvme0n1p2                     259:2    0 237.5G  0 part     └─nvme0n1p2_crypt             253:0    0 237.5G  0 crypt      ├─vg--blaszka-blaszka--root 253:1    0  27.9G  0 lvm        ├─vg--blaszka-blaszka--swap 253:2    0  59.6G  0 lvm        └─vg--blaszka-blaszka--home 253:3    0  74.5G  0 lvmBefore chroot, I mount--rootas/mnt,--homeas/mnt/home,/dev/nvme0n1p1as/mnt/boot.I do the incantations, and the/boot/efidirectory remains empty!!!My last repair session below:user@debian:~$ ls /sys/firmware/efi config_table  efivars  esrt  fw_platform_size  fw_vendor  mok-variables  runtime  runtime-map  systab user@debian:~$ sudo -i root@debian:~# cryptsetup open --type luks2 /dev/nvme0n1p2 nvme0n1p2_crypt Enter passphrase for /dev/nvme0n1p2:  root@debian:~# lsblk NAME                            MAJ:MIN RM   SIZE RO TYPE  MOUNTPOINTS loop0                             7:0    0   3.2G  1 loop  /run/live/rootfs/filesystem.squashfs sda                               8:0    0 931.5G  0 disk   sdb                               8:16   0   3.6T  0 disk   ├─sdb1                            8:17   0    20G  0 part   ├─sdb2                            8:18   0     4G  0 part   ├─sdb3                            8:19   0   600G  0 part   ├─sdb4                            8:20   0     1T  0 part   └─sdb5                            8:21   0     1T  0 part   sdc                               8:32   1   7.3G  0 disk   └─sdc1                            8:33   1     1G  0 part   sdd                               8:48   1  14.6G  0 disk   ├─sdd1                            8:49   1   3.9G  0 part  /run/live/medium └─sdd2                            8:50   1   3.2M  0 part   nvme0n1                         259:0    0 238.5G  0 disk   ├─nvme0n1p1                     259:1    0   953M  0 part   └─nvme0n1p2                     259:2    0 237.5G  0 part     └─nvme0n1p2_crypt             253:0    0 237.5G  0 crypt      ├─vg--blaszka-blaszka--root 253:1    0  27.9G  0 lvm        ├─vg--blaszka-blaszka--swap 253:2    0  59.6G  0 lvm        └─vg--blaszka-blaszka--home 253:3    0  74.5G  0 lvm    root@debian:~# mount /dev/mapper/vg--blaszka-blaszka--root /mnt root@debian:~# mount /dev/mapper/vg--blaszka-blaszka--home /mnt/home root@debian:~# mount /dev/nvme0n1p1 /mnt/boot root@debian:~# mount /dev/sdd1 /mnt/boot/efi mount: /mnt/boot/efi: WARNING: source write-protected, mounted read-only. root@debian:~#  ::1              ff00::0          ip6-allnodes     ip6-localnet     localhost         debian           ff02::1          ip6-allrouters   ip6-loopback      fe00::0          ff02::2          ip6-localhost    ip6-mcastprefix   root@debian:~# echo "Pendrives are listed under different letters in this boot" Pendrives are listed under different letters in this boot root@debian:~# lsblk NAME                            MAJ:MIN RM   SIZE RO TYPE  MOUNTPOINTS loop0                             7:0    0   3.2G  1 loop  /run/live/rootfs/filesystem.squashfs sda                               8:0    0 931.5G  0 disk   sdb                               8:16   0   3.6T  0 disk   ├─sdb1                            8:17   0    20G  0 part   ├─sdb2                            8:18   0     4G  0 part   ├─sdb3                            8:19   0   600G  0 part   ├─sdb4                            8:20   0     1T  0 part   └─sdb5                            8:21   0     1T  0 part   sdc                               8:32   1   7.3G  0 disk   └─sdc1                            8:33   1     1G  0 part   sdd                               8:48   1  14.6G  0 disk   ├─sdd1                            8:49   1   3.9G  0 part  /mnt/boot/efi │                                                          /run/live/medium └─sdd2                            8:50   1   3.2M  0 part   nvme0n1                         259:0    0 238.5G  0 disk   ├─nvme0n1p1                     259:1    0   953M  0 part  /mnt/boot └─nvme0n1p2                     259:2    0 237.5G  0 part     └─nvme0n1p2_crypt             253:0    0 237.5G  0 crypt      ├─vg--blaszka-blaszka--root 253:1    0  27.9G  0 lvm   /mnt     ├─vg--blaszka-blaszka--swap 253:2    0  59.6G  0 lvm        └─vg--blaszka-blaszka--home 253:3    0  74.5G  0 lvm   /mnt/home root@debian:~# umount /mnt/boot/efi root@debian:~# mount /dev/sdc1 /mnt/boot/efi root@debian:~# lsblk NAME                            MAJ:MIN RM   SIZE RO TYPE  MOUNTPOINTS loop0                             7:0    0   3.2G  1 loop  /run/live/rootfs/filesystem.squashfs sda                               8:0    0 931.5G  0 disk   sdb                               8:16   0   3.6T  0 disk   ├─sdb1                            8:17   0    20G  0 part   ├─sdb2                            8:18   0     4G  0 part   ├─sdb3                            8:19   0   600G  0 part   ├─sdb4                            8:20   0     1T  0 part   └─sdb5                            8:21   0     1T  0 part   sdc                               8:32   1   7.3G  0 disk   └─sdc1                            8:33   1     1G  0 part  /mnt/boot/efi sdd                               8:48   1  14.6G  0 disk   ├─sdd1                            8:49   1   3.9G  0 part  /run/live/medium └─sdd2                            8:50   1   3.2M  0 part   nvme0n1                         259:0    0 238.5G  0 disk   ├─nvme0n1p1                     259:1    0   953M  0 part  /mnt/boot └─nvme0n1p2                     259:2    0 237.5G  0 part     └─nvme0n1p2_crypt             253:0    0 237.5G  0 crypt      ├─vg--blaszka-blaszka--root 253:1    0  27.9G  0 lvm   /mnt     ├─vg--blaszka-blaszka--swap 253:2    0  59.6G  0 lvm        └─vg--blaszka-blaszka--home 253:3    0  74.5G  0 lvm   /mnt/home root@debian:~# for name in proc sys dev ; do mount --bind /$name /mnt/$name; done root@debian:~# chroot /mnt/ /bin/bash root@debian:/# ls /boot/ config-6.1.0-39-amd64       initrd.img-6.12.43+deb13-amd64  System.map-6.12.57+deb13-amd64 config-6.12.43+deb13-amd64  initrd.img-6.12.48+deb13-amd64  System.map-6.12.63+deb13-amd64 config-6.12.48+deb13-amd64  initrd.img-6.12.57+deb13-amd64  vmlinuz-6.1.0-39-amd64 config-6.12.57+deb13-amd64  initrd.img-6.12.63+deb13-amd64  vmlinuz-6.12.43+deb13-amd64 config-6.12.63+deb13-amd64  lost+found                      vmlinuz-6.12.48+deb13-amd64 efi                         System.map-6.1.0-39-amd64       vmlinuz-6.12.57+deb13-amd64 grub                        System.map-6.12.43+deb13-amd64  vmlinuz-6.12.63+deb13-amd64 initrd.img-6.1.0-39-amd64   System.map-6.12.48+deb13-amd64 root@debian:/# update-initramfs -u update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-6.12.63+deb13-amd64 root@debian:/# update-grub Generating grub configuration file ... Found background image: .background_cache.png Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-6.12.63+deb13-amd64 Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-6.12.63+deb13-amd64 Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-6.12.57+deb13-amd64 Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-6.12.57+deb13-amd64 Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-6.12.48+deb13-amd64 Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-6.12.48+deb13-amd64 Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-6.12.43+deb13-amd64 Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-6.12.43+deb13-amd64 Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-6.1.0-39-amd64 Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-6.1.0-39-amd64 Warning: os-prober will not be executed to detect other bootable partitions. Systems on them will not be added to the GRUB boot configuration. Check GRUB_DISABLE_OS_PROBER documentation entry. Adding boot menu entry for UEFI Firmware Settings ... done root@debian:/# lsblk NAME                            MAJ:MIN RM   SIZE RO TYPE  MOUNTPOINTS loop0                             7:0    0   3.2G  1 loop   sda                               8:0    0 931.5G  0 disk   sdb                               8:16   0   3.6T  0 disk   ├─sdb1                            8:17   0    20G  0 part   ├─sdb2                            8:18   0     4G  0 part   ├─sdb3                            8:19   0   600G  0 part   ├─sdb4                            8:20   0     1T  0 part   └─sdb5                            8:21   0     1T  0 part   sdc                               8:32   1   7.3G  0 disk   └─sdc1                            8:33   1     1G  0 part  /boot/efi sdd                               8:48   1  14.6G  0 disk   ├─sdd1                            8:49   1   3.9G  0 part   └─sdd2                            8:50   1   3.2M  0 part   nvme0n1                         259:0    0 238.5G  0 disk   ├─nvme0n1p1                     259:1    0   953M  0 part  /boot └─nvme0n1p2                     259:2    0 237.5G  0 part     └─nvme0n1p2_crypt             253:0    0 237.5G  0 crypt      ├─vg--blaszka-blaszka--root 253:1    0  27.9G  0 lvm   /     ├─vg--blaszka-blaszka--swap 253:2    0  59.6G  0 lvm        └─vg--blaszka-blaszka--home 253:3    0  74.5G  0 lvm   /home root@debian:/# grub-install /dev/sdc --removable Installing for i386-pc platform. Installation finished. No error reported. root@debian:/#  exit root@debian:~#The reason I say trying different kernels and rescue mode doesn't work is because 1) I've tried it, 2) the problem surfaces, weirdly enough, after replacingGainward Geforce 750 TiwithSapphire Radeon RX 9060 XT 16GB Pulse. I can put the 750 Ti back inside and it will suddenly start booting again, without a live USB.
[Release] PDF-Ninja v0.0.1 - Fast, Offline, Privacy-First PDF Tool for Linux 🥷 [Release] PDF-Ninja v0.0.1 - Fast, Offline, Privacy-First PDF Tool for Linux 🥷u/CRYPTD777•5 days ago[Release] PDF-Ninja v0.0.1 - Fast, Offline, Privacy-First PDF Tool for Linux 🥷Hey, made a thing for Linux users who hate cloud-based PDF tools.PDF-Ninja- merge, split, compress PDFs. Everything runs offline on your machine. No internet needed, no tracking, nothing.Built it because I was sick of PDF tools that want to upload your files or need a million dependencies.Quick install:Debian/Ubuntu:sudo dpkg -i pdf-ninja_0.0.1_amd64.debAppImage (universal):chmod +x PDF-Ninja-0.0.1-x86_64.AppImage ./PDF-Ninja-0.0.1-x86_64.AppImageDownload:https://github.com/cryptd777/pdf-ninja/releasesIt's MIT licensed, first release so probably has bugs. Let me know if something breaks.Might add password protection and rotation later if people actually use it.
Cinamon 6.6.6 with potentially improved Wayland support has been released. Cinamon 6.6.6 with potentially improved Wayland support has been released.u/Itchy_Ruin_352•18 days agoCinamon 6.6.6 with potentially improved Wayland support has been released.Cinamon 6.6.6 with potentially improved Wayland support has been released.r/linuxmint•19 days agoCinamon 6.6.6 with potentially improved Wayland support has been released.JuhuuSee new Github Commits*https://github.com/linuxmint/cinnamon/commits/master/Perhaps even the obvious showstoppers in the use of Wayland will soon be fixed:Drag and drop of files does not work in Nemo when Wayland is enabled. #13468*https://github.com/linuxmint/cinnamon/issues/13468What can developer do with currnt not compatible software components:Compatibility Layer: XWaylandBecause many apps still rely on X11, most Wayland environments ship with:XWayland: An X server running as a Wayland client.Lets old X11 apps run on Wayland without modification.*https://thomasrones.com/technical/linux/x11-vs-wayland/66upvotes·22comments
Need help installing Linux on HP Pavilion 15 Gaming laptop with Nvidia GPU Need help installing Linux on HP Pavilion 15 Gaming laptop with Nvidia GPUu/Raging-Bull-24•19 days agoNeed help installing Linux on HP Pavilion 15 Gaming laptop with Nvidia GPUGreetings,I'm trying to revive an HP Pavilion 15 Gaming laptop, model dk1xxx. It has an Intel i5-10300H CPU with Integrated Intel UHD Graphics and Discrete Nvidia GTX 1050 GPU, 8GB of RAM and 256GB of disk space.I've upgraded the laptop from Windows 10 to Windows 11, but Win11 seems to be limited by the system specs. I understand that the GTX 10 series have been officially discontinued and receive no more updates, this added to the constraint of running Win11 on an 8GB RAM laptop prompted me to think of Linux as an alternative.I've tried Debian, Arch and Fedora distributions so far, but the rolling release nature of both Arch and Fedora makes it hard to make work/business use on the laptop.Furthermore, I know most business software for Linux is designed with Ubuntu, RHEL (and its extensions), and SUSE in mind. But I have had problems running these distributions on this laptop with discrete Nvidia GPU.I would like to use Ubuntu or Kubuntu, as they both support low-mid Unreal Engine development, which is the platform I intend to use in this laptop + other statistics and robotics software.The main problem I have with Ubuntu/Kubuntu is that the screen flickers too much, rendering the laptop unusable. I've tried Ubuntu 22.04 and 24.04 versions to no avail, and Linux Mint (Ubuntu based) and PopOS also have the same problem. I consider is a driver issue. Happens both on Xorg and Wayland.I wonder if anyone has gone through this same problem trying to run Ubuntu on an HP Pavilion 15 Gaming laptop with Nvidia, any help will be appreciated.Currently, I'm using Windows 11 after trying many distros. It's slow, can't open many tabs or do much workload, but it worksThe distributions that worked: Debian 12 and 13 (+ LMDE, PikaOS), Devuan 6, Arch (+ EndeavourOS, CachyOS), Fedora (+ Nobara, Bazzite), RHEL (+ Rocky, Alma) - with Debian and RHEL based distros needing more setup to recognize the Nvidia card.Although, I could use any of them, I need to use Unreal Engine for some low-end projects, which is why I tried Ubuntu many times.I'd appreciate any help on how to solve the screen flickering issue of Ubuntu/Kubuntu in HP Pavilion laptops, or how to setup UE in Linux and the best distribution to do soShould I consider trying to compile UE on Debian? I've found many people reporting errors, which is why I'm doubtful of it. Arch breaks easily for me, and Fedora removing Xorg support also makes things harder.I'm genuinely considering disposing this laptop as gaming console or server if I can't setup UE.Thanks in advance. Much appreciated.
Debian ricing after 3 months on Linux Debian ricing after 3 months on Linuxu/giquo•9 days agoDebian ricing after 3 months on Linux
ACPI errors on new .69 kernel release (regression?) ACPI errors on new .69 kernel release (regression?)u/ppopsquak•3 days agoACPI errors on new .69 kernel release (regression?)hello all.I saw the usbmuxd security update in my RSS feed, which I then ran apt update and apt upgrade, pulling in this recent kernel upgrade. now whenever I boot up on that kernel, I getACPI BIOS Error (bug): Attempt to CreateField of length zero (20240827/dsopcode-133) ACPI Error: Aborting method \_SB.WMID.WQBD due to previous error (AE_AML_OPERAND_VALUE) (20240827/psparse-529) ACPI BIOS Error (bug): Attempt to CreateField of length zero (20240827/dsopcode-133) ACPI Error: Aborting method \_SB.WMID.WQBD due to previous error (AE_AML_OPERAND_VALUE) (20240827/psparse-529) ACPI BIOS Error (bug): Attempt to CreateField of length zero (20240827/dsopcode-133) ACPI Error: Aborting method \_SB.WMID.WQBC due to previous error (AE_AML_OPERAND_VALUE) (20240827/psparse-529) ACPI BIOS Error (bug): Attempt to CreateField of length zero (20240827/dsopcode-133) ACPI Error: Aborting method \_SB.WMID.WQBC due to previous error (AE_AML_OPERAND_VALUE) (20240827/psparse-529) ACPI BIOS Error (bug): Attempt to CreateField of length zero (20240827/dsopcode-133) ACPI Error: Aborting method \_SB.WMID.WQBE due to previous error (AE_AML_OPERAND_VALUE) (20240827/psparse-529) ACPI BIOS Error (bug): Attempt to CreateField of length zero (20240827/dsopcode-133) ACPI Error:(yes, the last line is blank just like that after ACPI Error: ) It boots up fine, but I do not trust it in the long run. it is not logging this on the .63 kernel, so is there any way to remove and put this kernel upgrade on hold without removing the "linux-image-amd64" metapackage?thanks in advance
Trixie/Plasma/Wayland KRdp Remote Desktop Fix? Trixie/Plasma/Wayland KRdp Remote Desktop Fix?u/Razzburry_Pie•19 days agoTrixie/Plasma/Wayland KRdp Remote Desktop Fix?With Trixie (Stable)/Plasma 6.3 as remote desktop server and Windows 10 Pro as client using RDP, a remote session is useless because the keyboard doesn't work.  The host doesn't accept any input from the client keyboard.  The desktop is visible and the mouse works though.  This is a confirmed bug at bothKDEandDebian.Anyway, does anyone know if remote desktop works with Forky or Sid, which use Plasma 6.5?  I want to transition away from Win 11 to Linux but I've got to have RDP functionality.  Thanks.
Securing NFS on Debian: /etc/nfs.conf vs legacy config files Securing NFS on Debian: /etc/nfs.conf vs legacy config filesu/shellscript_•20 days agoSecuring NFS on Debian: /etc/nfs.conf vs legacy config filesI have just installed NFS on my Deb 13 home server and am in the process of locking it down asdescribed in the docs. However, it seems like the docs may be out of date, as they say one should modify/etc/default/nfs-commonwith these values:NEED_STATD="no" NEED_IDMAPD="yes"Are these necessary for only allowing NFAv4, or can I leave that file as is and just make something like/etc/nfs.conf.d/local.confto get the same result:[nfsd] host=192.168.4.231 vers2=n vers3=n vers4.0=n vers4.1=n vers4.2=yI also masked rpcbind like so:sudo systemctl mask rpcbind.service sudo systemctl mask rpcbind.socketIs this setup ok, given that the docs still say to use the legacy config files? I was also wondering if if there were other NFS hardening settings or services to mask or change.
Debian Sid installed on an external HDD hangs at this screen when using 6.18 kernel Debian Sid installed on an external HDD hangs at this screen when using 6.18 kernelu/miguel04685•20 days agoDebian Sid installed on an external HDD hangs at this screen when using 6.18 kernel
Migrating to Debian - which firewall ? Migrating to Debian - which firewall ?u/realkikinovak•25 days agoMigrating to Debian - which firewall ?Hi,I'm a long-time Linux user (two and a half decades since Slackware 7.1). I've been using RHEL clones mainly for the last ten years or so, on desktops as well as servers (local and Internet-facing). For firewalling I simply chose the defaultfirewalld.I understand under Debian there are different possibilities to handle firewalls. As far as I understand,ufw(Uncomplicated firewall) seems to be the default, thoughfirewalldseems to be an option.Any recommendations ?Niki
Cinamon 6.6.7 with potentially improved Wayland support has been released. Cinamon 6.6.7 with potentially improved Wayland support has been released.u/Itchy_Ruin_352•3 days agoCinamon 6.6.7 with potentially improved Wayland support has been released.Cinamon 6.6.7 with potentially improved Wayland support has been released.r/linuxmint•3 days agoCinamon 6.6.7 with potentially improved Wayland support has been released.JuhuuSee new Github Commits*https://github.com/linuxmint/cinnamon/commits/master/Typical X11 security issues that could be eliminated with Wayland:*https://thomasrones.com/technical/linux/x11-vs-wayland/What can developer do with currnt not compatible software components:Compatibility Layer: XWaylandBecause many apps still rely on X11, most Wayland environments ship with:XWayland: An X server running as a Wayland client.Lets old X11 apps run on Wayland without modification.https://thomasrones.com/technical/linux/x11-vs-wayland/Shorttest, still not working:* DuD of files between two Nemo windows.* DuD of files between Desktop and Nemo window.* DuD of Firefox tabs.50upvotes·13comments
FSR4 Arc Raiders FSR4 Arc Raidersu/--hurdler--•20 days agoFSR4 Arc RaidersDo I need FSR4 with a 9070XT?
Upgrade stalled? Upgrade stalled?u/MotorcycleMayor•20 days agoUpgrade stalled?SolvedI used strace to walk through the processes that were stalled waiting on other processes to complete until I found the tail one...which kept pinging the terminal (through strace) for user input. It was a systemctl restart command for e2scrub_all.timer (and one other e2scrub thing I don't recall).I used kill to remove the process...and the logjam broke. aptitude upgrade ran to completion.Issuing a second aptitude upgrade reported that no additional upgrades were required, so I think the first upgrade cycle really did run to completion.I rebooted the server, and it appears to be running normally. Fingers crossed... :)=================================================================I'm trying to upgrade my Debian 12.2 server, but it appears to have stalled at the following point:Setting up e2fsprogs (1.47.0-2+b2) ... update-initramfs: deferring update (trigger activated) e2scrub_all.service is a disabled or a static unit not running, not starting it.It's been at this point for just shy of 2 hours now.I checked ps -ax to see if I could learn so more and found this:1673032 pts/1    S+     0:00 sudo aptitude upgrade 1673033 pts/2    Ss     0:00 sudo aptitude upgrade 1673034 pts/2    Sl+    0:13 aptitude upgrade 1674684 ?        Ss     0:00 /lib/systemd/systemd-networkd 1674692 ?        Ss     0:02 /lib/systemd/systemd-journald 1676617 pts/3    Ss+    0:00 /usr/bin/dpkg --status-fd 29 --configure --pending 1692726 ?        Ssl    0:00 /usr/sbin/qemu-ga 1693412 ?        Ss     0:00 /lib/systemd/systemd-udevd 1693919 pts/3    S+     0:00 /bin/sh /var/lib/dpkg/info/e2fsprogs.postinst configure 1.47.0-2 1693954 pts/3    S+     0:00 /usr/bin/perl /usr/bin/deb-systemd-invoke restart e2scrub_all.service e2scrub_all.timer e2s 1693964 pts/3    S+     0:00 systemctl --quiet --system restart e2scrub_all.timer e2scrub_reap.service 1693965 pts/3    S+     0:00 /bin/systemd-tty-ask-password-agent --watchIt seems like this means there's a process looking for a password which it can't get because it's not running interactively.What should I do?
Issue with Amnesia VPN on Debian 13 Issue with Amnesia VPN on Debian 13u/Conscious_Buddy1338•20 days agoIssue with Amnesia VPN on Debian 13Hello, I use Debian 13 and I use Amnesia VPN for VPN connections. Firstly I have some troubles: After I turned on my VPN I couldn't visited any sites. I noticed that some other things that require internet connection work well with it, so I understoond that the problem with DNS. I find the solution:echo "nameserver 8.8.8.8" | sudo tee /etc/resolv.confecho "nameserver 1.1.1.1" | sudo tee -a /etc/resolv.confIt works, but I should do it every time before turning on VPN. How I can automate it or how I can fix the problem another way?
New Member, First Post New Member, First Postu/DaleFranks•23 days agoNew Member, First PostHi, everyone. I've spent the last 25 years refusing to switch to Linux, but Microsoft finally broke me. I installed Debian on my old laptop earlier this month. I also just ordered a brand new all-AMD (no NVIDIA) laptop. When it arrives, I'm gonna install plain, old, stable Debian 13 the first time I boot it up.So...Hello.
My Debian Screenshot My Debian Screenshotu/Advanced_Knee_2951•1 mo. agoMy Debian Screenshot
Audio Spectrum Analyzer for Linux Framebuffer Audio Spectrum Analyzer for Linux Framebufferu/Vegetable-Let3801•10 days agoAudio Spectrum Analyzer for Linux Framebuffer
TightVNCServer shares blank gray screen on VNC Viewer on Trixie (13.3) TightVNCServer shares blank gray screen on VNC Viewer on Trixie (13.3)u/ImaginaryTango•6 days agoTightVNCServer shares blank gray screen on VNC Viewer on Trixie (13.3)I installed Trixie on an older iMac (one too old to update macOS anymore). I've used Debian on and off since the '90s, but it's been a while since I've used it seriously so I know a number of things have changed. I'm using KDE Plasma (installed as an option during setup) for my DE. I have multiple Macs and Linux systems (including several Raspberry Pis) on my LAN and often use RealVNCViewer from one computer to do remote on another one.I'm open to suggestions to make changes. I've been using RealVNCViewer for a while, since I can use it with Apple's ScreenSharing and with Linux systems, so one viewer does it all. (I know there are RealVNC licensing frustrations now - I don't use RealVNC as a server because that issue hit me over a year ago.)I went through and found several tutorials, but I kind of had to patch things together to get a VNC server on my Debian system. So here's the steps I used:* sudo apt install tightvncserver* run vncserver - which, according to some pages, should have asked me for a password, but did not. It did set up :1 as a display.* Changed ~/.vnc/xstartup to:#!/bin/shxrdb $HOME/.Xresourcesxsetroot -solid grey# Start KDE Plasma desktopstartkde &* Checked amd verified ~/.vncstartup was executable* Killed the running server and restarted to use :1 as the display and to use the new settings.Once I did that, I went to the viewer, on a Mac, and set the address assysname:5901and connected to it. It asked for my password, which I entered and I got a blank gray screen.Also, this is after a remote reboot (sudo restart -r now), so I had not yet logged into the KDE desktop. (The computer is in another building.) I'm hoping I don't have to always be logged in to Plasma to get this to work!I'm finding a lot of different tutorials and methods to setup a VNC server on Trixie. Some recommend TigerVNC, but I've also read a few posts about that still needing updates so it works on Trixie. I'm open to a different server, or even a different viewer if it'll work with my Macs using ScreenSharing (which is a VNC based protocol - my current viewer works fine with that). But if I make changes, I don't want to have to have multiple viewers on a computer to work with different systems.
Need some help... running slow Need some help... running slowu/dohbob•5 days agoNeed some help... running slowAll my terminal commands are running super slow... even things like ls, vim, autocomplete, apt ... I recently upgraded to trixie.  and installed nvm, node, npm and vscode-server... i'm not even sure how to debug the issue.I did check top... it doesn't seem to be running anything... basically under 10%
should i use debian? should i use debian?u/MIkaela39752•17 days agoshould i use debian?hi guys, im currently daily driving fedora linux 43 with KDE plasma and its great! but it does receive updates quite often and a few times i had to fix stuff because the updates broke stuff and so yeah..... i want to have a virtual machine dedicated for gaming running windows 11 with a gpu passthrough but it requires a lot of effort (i only have 1 dedicated gpu, no igpus though) and i dont want anything to break it (updates)im curious if i should make one inside debian LTS?it will be on its own SSD separate from fedora (fedora is on my smaller SSD)i also plan on using this bigger drive for archiving purposes too+ is KDE plasma available for debian LTS? if it is, is it stable? is it a DE you guys recommend for debian LTS?
Debian's Challenge When Its Developers Quietly Drift Away Debian's Challenge When Its Developers Quietly Drift Awayu/ExaHamza•8 days agoDebian's Challenge When Its Developers Quietly Drift AwayDebian's Challenge When Its Developers Quietly Drift Away
How to combine multiple desktop environment on Debian? How to combine multiple desktop environment on Debian?u/Conscious_Buddy1338•20 days agoHow to combine multiple desktop environment on Debian?Hello, I and my buddy have common pc. We both prefer to use linux. But he prefer to use Kde Plasma, I prefer to use Gnome. I installed Debian 13 with both desktop environment and after I launch Gnome I see some obvious conflicts: some badges are not displayed correctly, and some badges are from KDE instead of Gnome.I want to ask, Is it possible to use one system with different desktop environment of there is no way to use it normally and it will be better to install two systems on different partitions?
No Ethernet card detected on install No Ethernet card detected on installu/et3rnalwaffles•19 days agoNo Ethernet card detected on install
Galère imprévue pour trouver flatpak après instal Galère imprévue pour trouver flatpak après instalu/RowOk4402•3 days agoGalère imprévue pour trouver flatpak après instalBonjour,Complet débutant sur Debian 13 (trixie), je m’évertue à vouloir installer GIMP. Et là, surprise, je constate que flatpak est… introuvable, voir capture d’écran. Je peux essayer toutes les commandes trouvées sur les sites d’aide en ligne, danser sur ma tête, rien n’y fait. Flatpak, c’est tout de même la base pour installer des logiciels, si j’ai bien compris. Quelle frustration ! Help, please !Merci d’avance pour vos réponses expertes.
(Build and tested on Debian Testing) Strix Halo, Step-3.5-Flash-Q4_K_S imatrix, llama.cpp/ROCm/Vulkan Power & Efficiency test (Build and tested on Debian Testing) Strix Halo, Step-3.5-Flash-Q4_K_S imatrix, llama.cpp/ROCm/Vulkan Power & Efficiency testu/Educational_Sun_8813•4 days ago(Build and tested on Debian Testing) Strix Halo, Step-3.5-Flash-Q4_K_S imatrix, llama.cpp/ROCm/Vulkan Power & Efficiency testStrix Halo, Step-3.5-Flash-Q4_K_S imatrix, llama.cpp/ROCm/Vulkan Power & Efficiency testr/LocalLLaMA•4 days agoStrix Halo, Step-3.5-Flash-Q4_K_S imatrix, llama.cpp/ROCm/Vulkan Power & Efficiency test59upvotes·30comments
Why am I getting errors installing non-free packages? I'm pretty sure I have everything down ok? I just want my nvidia drivers... Why am I getting errors installing non-free packages? I'm pretty sure I have everything down ok? I just want my nvidia drivers...u/wierdling•13 days agoWhy am I getting errors installing non-free packages? I'm pretty sure I have everything down ok? I just want my nvidia drivers...
How's it looking? How's it looking?u/No-Goat-5421•19 days agoHow's it looking?
Is debian unsuitable for mail server? Is debian unsuitable for mail server?u/code4btc•19 days agoIs debian unsuitable for mail server?I keep running into serious issues setting up Postfix / Dovecot mail accounts on a Debian VPS, whereas on Ubuntu everything works almost out of the box. Is this a known Debian thing, or am I just doing something wrong?Note: setup is done via Webmin.Edit: As long I am almost sure that this is because of default Webmin setup of Postfix ,Dovecot and probably other seevers, I'd appreciate responses from fellow redditors that have by experience an opinion on this setup. And I apologize I didn't make this clear before. Also am thankful for the kind responses so far.
Replicar aparencia Zorin no Debian XFCE Replicar aparencia Zorin no Debian XFCEu/Character-Split-8003•15 days agoReplicar aparencia Zorin no Debian XFCE
Debian 13 HDD broken Debian 13 HDD brokenu/EmergencyManager_555•4 days agoDebian 13 HDD brokenDebian 13 HDD brokenr/debian•4 days agoDebian 13 HDD brokenHello,This is not the first time that as soon as I install Debian 13 my old SATA HDD decided to depart. The first one I have doubts about what it happened to it as it was part of a software RAID, so this could be the cause. The second HDD broke last night. I know it can be either gparted of fdisk during the installation process, but id like to ask what I can do now? The second HDD was happily mounted as a single ext4 partition with some data in it. I installed Debian 13, partitioned the first HDD manually, with a guided partitioning. I saved the configuration and I installed the OS. When I checked the second HDD, the only file inside is a 'Test' folder completely empty and the trash folder (also empty). Disk says that the disk has 50Gb used and 950Gb empty. I tried fcdsk -f and it says that the MBR is broken and I need to change the magic number. Tried that, nothing works. I also installed testdisk and run a deep search. It can find the old partition, but it says that it cannot recover the data, although it wasn't formatted by me. Is this a bug or bad behaviour from the Debian Expert Install? Any idea on how can I resolve? Thank you for any information and support.1upvote·6comments
Volume Control Problem on XFCE Debian Volume Control Problem on XFCE Debianu/ferfykins•20 days agoVolume Control Problem on XFCE DebianWhenever i turn the volume up all the way from volume control on librewolf web browser, as soon as i close the volume control manager, the volume decreases back to default, rather than all the way up i set it to..... Any idea how to fix this, so it's always at max volume for web browser (librewolf)
Debian login shell question Debian login shell questionu/Zechariah_B_•4 days agoDebian login shell questionDoes Debian explicitly require a Bourne compatible login shell and if not can it be freely interchanged with other shells such as Fish without causing major issues?
Yup my desktop Yup my desktopu/mcds99•20 days agoYup my desktopThe sticker is for a record store "Extreme Noise"
5 Reasons why I like my Mac Mini as a Home Server. 5 Reasons why I like my Mac Mini as a Home Server.u/JettaRider077•20 days ago5 Reasons why I like my Mac Mini as a Home Server.5 Reasons why I like my Mac Mini as a Home Server.r/homelab•20 days ago5 Reasons why I like my Mac Mini as a Home Server.It is quiet. My Mac mini runs quietly, there is no fan noise to distract me when I am working on my projects.It is inexpensive. A Mac mini can be bought for a good price On eBay or Facebook marketplace.It is software upgradeable. When I bought my Mac mini I immediately installed Debian Linux with very little trouble.It has a good form factor. The slim form factor allows it to be placed in easy places close to your other equipment.It runs cool. Even working heavy loads the processor never overheats and makes it a reliable machine.4comments
Help with drivers Help with driversu/Pale_Management_9402•6 days agoHelp with driversI installed Debian 13, but I can't install the driver. It either won't let me into Linux with the error "failed to start nvidia-persistenced.service" or a black screen.During installation, this nonsense keeps popping up: Warning: Tried to start delayed itemhttp://deb.debian.org/debiantrixie/non-free amd64 nvidia-alternative amd64 550.163.01-2, but failedGPU: Nvidia Geforce 1660PC
My Debian 13.3 + Plasma My Debian 13.3 + Plasmau/nisper_ia•21 days agoMy Debian 13.3 + PlasmaI feel like it needs more, but I don't know what you all think
Python libraries Python librariesu/Pretend-Flan7094•21 days agoPython librariesIs safe to install python libraries on Debian using pip install or apt ? Can it break Debian?
My new fresh Debian Forky SID with a custom kernel i made My new fresh Debian Forky SID with a custom kernel i madeu/matrixisme_1•20 days agoMy new fresh Debian Forky SID with a custom kernel i made
Tried adding Broadcom Wifi drivers - unloaded wired drivers, so no networking at all. Tried adding Broadcom Wifi drivers - unloaded wired drivers, so no networking at all.u/ImaginaryTango•5 days agoTried adding Broadcom Wifi drivers - unloaded wired drivers, so no networking at all.I'm using Trixie (13.3) on an iMac that's too old to update with macOS, so I'm turning it into a Linux system.I'm running into a problem setting up wifi. It requires Broadcom drivers. I've found some tutorials on this, but it's kind of a mixed bag and none use the same method. Even worse, some tutorials overlap, then vary from others.I added non-free to my repositories (and realized there's a difference between "non-free" and "non-free-firmware" - not at all the same) to my sources. Then I ransudo apt install broadcom-sta-dkms. It's after that I think I ran into a problem.I ransudo modprobe -r b43 bcma brcmsmac, thensudo modprobe wl.I found that wl was not on my system and wasn't sure whether that was an issue or not. At this point I was connected via ssh and testing VNC with krfb, so my networking connection didn't shut down.Then I didsudo update-initramfs -uto make sure the new drivers loaded at boot and rebooted. Now there are not only still no indications of a wifi connection, but my wired connection is gone.So what do I need to do to reactivate my wired connection, short of doing a brand new re-install? (And can someone recommend a known good tutorial for adding wifi to an old iMac or to other hardware using Broadcom drivers that won't result in my wired connection being hosed?)Also, is there an issue with having the Broadcom wifi drivers and wired ethernet drivers working at the same time? Are they mutually exclusive?I'd like to have both wired and wifi working on this, since there are still several possible situations where I might use this and it may even be moved between 2 different locations, so I'd like to have both connections if possible.
Startup of Debian halts until keyboard press Startup of Debian halts until keyboard pressu/jpchow•5 days agoStartup of Debian halts until keyboard press
Debian 13 + NVIDIA RTX 3050 / External monitor via HDMI stops working after installing NVIDIA drivers Debian 13 + NVIDIA RTX 3050 / External monitor via HDMI stops working after installing NVIDIA driversu/bily0071•21 days agoDebian 13 + NVIDIA RTX 3050 / External monitor via HDMI stops working after installing NVIDIA driversHeyyI’m usingDebian 13 (Xorg)on anHP Victus 16laptop withRyzen 5 5600H + NVIDIA RTX 3050 hybrid graphics, and my external monitor connectedHDMI → HDMIstops working after installing the NVIDIA proprietary drivers. Before installing NVIDIA drivers, the external monitor worked; after installation, it is detected byxrandrand all modes are listed, but enabling it always fails withxrandr: Configure crtc failed, even at 1080p/60. I disabled Wayland, tested both GNOME and XFCE, and the internal laptop display works fine. The same monitor and HDMI cable work correctly on Windows. Is this a known limitation of NVIDIA hybrid laptops on Linux when HDMI is wired to the dGPU, and isUSB-C → DisplayPort (DP Alt-Mode)the correct workaround?
help with power draw on laptop with nvidia driver help with power draw on laptop with nvidia driveru/bradmont•21 days agohelp with power draw on laptop with nvidia driverI recently switched back to Debian after a number of years on Ubuntu derivatives. For a while I didn't bother with nvidia's drivers since I don't game, but I was having freezes and reboots on suspend so I installed the proprietary drivers. This fixed the suspend issue, but now my laptop is drawing more than twice as much power (often idling at 10-11w vs 4-5 before).I suspect the system is keeping the gpu powered when it's not necessary. Any tips on how to get back to reasonable power draw? It's a GeForce MX150.
Debian on Powerspec G752 Debian on Powerspec G752u/Average2016•21 days agoDebian on Powerspec G752Is Debian stable with backported kernel, and wiki instructions for steam and nvidia drivers good for a Powerspec G752?I have been using Debian in my old non-gaming PC and was wondering how easy will be to continue using Debian in newer hardware. Before anyone suggests Bazzite, Mint and other trendy distros I'm not a fan of using derivative distros and I would be either using Debian or Fedora.I have been using Debian for much longer, so I’m more inclined towards it. But was wondering if I’m setting up myself for a world of pain.MoBo: MSI PRO B650-P WIFIGPU: NVIDIA GeForce RTX 5070 Ti 16GB GDDR7 PCIe Gen 5CPU: AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3DThanks in advance.Edit: I guess I was expecting experience from others before I dive in. I guess I’ll have to install this weekend and report back.
Recuperar la antigua instalacion Recuperar la antigua instalacionu/Hour_Tune_708•5 days agoRecuperar la antigua instalacionHola. He cometido un error de novato grandísimo. He hecho una nueva instalación de debian 12 sin guardar copia de seguridad de la antigua instalación. He creado un programa que estaba corriendo en debian 12 de la antigua instalacion. Hay alguna manera de restaurar el trabajo, los archivos creados de la antigua instalacion?
Snaps on Debian Snaps on Debianu/signacula•20 days agoSnaps on DebianIs it really that bad to use snaps on Debian?Beyond distro tribalism, Debian explicitly recommends avoiding third-party repositories to keep the system stable. For software that is not available in the official repos or doesn’t have a well-maintained Flatpak, Snap seems like a reasonable alternative.For example, Spotify: using Snap avoids adding external repos and keeps the base system clean.I often see people say that if you want to use snaps you should just use Ubuntu, but I prefer Debian precisely because I can choose what to install and how. Using snaps voluntarily feels different from having them imposed by default.So my question is: from a technical and Debian-specific perspective, are snaps actually a bad idea on Debian? Or is the criticism mostly philosophical?Thanks!
Nvidia driver seems to break usb-c DP alt Nvidia driver seems to break usb-c DP altu/Mindless_Courage1476•22 days agoNvidia driver seems to break usb-c DP altI have a 2021 Asus Zephyrus G14, and it has an rtx3060 inside to use. Until now i have never tried to use the DP-alt mode uab-c port that i have, but i needed two external monitors so here i am. My issue is as follows. On a stock debian 13 instalation with no custom sources, i installed the nvidia-driver package and now the usb-c DP alt port does not work. It sees my monitors, tries to start it up, but fails and it shows an error at the crt allocation. The issue is, with a live usb, the system works just fine so i have pinpointed the issue to the nvidia driver.Has anyone had a similar issue and is there any way i get to keep running the 3060 and have the 2 monitors?
Trixie: Bug in Gnome energy settings (auto suspend)? Trixie: Bug in Gnome energy settings (auto suspend)?u/jodkalemon•22 days agoTrixie: Bug in Gnome energy settings (auto suspend)?
Debian 13 HDD broken Debian 13 HDD brokenu/EmergencyManager_555•4 days agoDebian 13 HDD brokenHello,This is not the first time that as soon as I install Debian 13 my old SATA HDD decided to depart. The first one I have doubts about what it happened to it as it was part of a software RAID, so this could be the cause. The second HDD broke last night. I know it can be either gparted of fdisk during the installation process, but id like to ask what I can do now? The second HDD was happily mounted as a single ext4 partition with some data in it. I installed Debian 13, partitioned the first HDD manually, with a guided partitioning. I saved the configuration and I installed the OS. When I checked the second HDD, the only file inside is a 'Test' folder completely empty and the trash folder (also empty). Disk says that the disk has 50Gb used and 950Gb empty. I tried fcdsk -f and it says that the MBR is broken and I need to change the magic number. Tried that, nothing works. I also installed testdisk and run a deep search. It can find the old partition, but it says that it cannot recover the data, although it wasn't formatted by me. Is this a bug or bad behaviour from the Debian Expert Install? Any idea on how can I resolve? Thank you for any information and support.
Canon MG3200 driver Canon MG3200 driveru/ne0n008•22 days agoCanon MG3200 driverHello,My Debian 13 (KDE) just recently discovered my Canon MG3250. I wasn't paying attention as I didn't needed it, but now that I got time, I decided to configure this.TL:DR -official driverwon't install without dependencies (see error below). I can't install those dependencies as I have newer versions or specific versions of these files are unavailable. What to do?----------------------------------------------I followed the guidehere, and I ran ./install.sh with terminal:dpkg: dependency problems prevent configuration of cnijfilter-mg3200series:  cnijfilter-mg3200series depends on libpango1.0-0 (>= 1.12.3); however:   Package libpango1.0-0 is not installed.  cnijfilter-mg3200series depends on libpng12-0 (>= 1.2.8rel); however:   Package libpng12-0 is not installed.  cnijfilter-mg3200series depends on libtiff4; however:   Package libtiff4 is not installed.  ...the rest of the error where the install is revertedWhen I wanted to install dependencies, I got this:$ sudo apt-get install libpango1.0-0 Reading package lists... Done Building dependency tree... Done Reading state information... Done E: Unable to locate package libpango1.0-0 E: Couldn't find any package by glob 'libpango1.0-0' E: Couldn't find any package by regex 'libpango1.0-0'I have newer version of libpango(Installed: 1.56.3-1). I'm guessing 1.0 version is obsolete and no more available. I also wenthereto download libpango1.0-0 but my browsers are stuck no matter which mirror I use(ftp or http): Firefox endlessly downloads while Chromium does a bit of loading and then gives up.Running downloaded .deb packages with Discover installs them, but...nothing changes.When I go to printer settings, click "add", the printer is recognized but I get this error: "Unable to locate recommended drivers. Click |Refresh| to try again or choose a driver manually." Choosing a driver doesn't give me any Canon options. Going with Generic, none of the options print the test page.Trying to navigate to the downloaded driver from settings makes no point as downloaded files are .deb types and are not discoverable by settings utility.Any other suggestion I can try?Tia.EDIT: forgot to add this: According tothis, am I better off buying new printer, or the driver struggle is worth it?
Kernel options to install Debian over Minicom serial console on PC Engines routerboard Kernel options to install Debian over Minicom serial console on PC Engines routerboardu/realkikinovak•22 days agoKernel options to install Debian over Minicom serial console on PC Engines routerboardHi,I have a PC Engines routerboard that has no video card. In the past I've successfully installed CentOS and Rocky Linux on this board using Minicom and the serial console.A couple months ago I even managed to install Debian 13 Trixie on it using the text mode installer in the serial console. Unfortunately I forgot to write down the kernel options I used to boot this thing and now I can't seem to remember them.Something like this:console=ttyUSB0,115200n8 edd=offBut I can't seem to get to the installer with this. What did I miss ?
Day in a life of an ex mac os user part 3 Day in a life of an ex mac os user part 3u/JohnConnoor•22 days agoDay in a life of an ex mac os user part 3Day in a life of an ex mac os user part 3u/JohnConnoor•22 days agoDay in a life of an ex mac os user part 3Ok so it's now been a while since I moved to Debian and so far I have no regrets, comparing it with my mac os laptop and MacOS operating system it's vastly superior imo, I will keep running Debian for the foreseeable future! On another note I am degoogling myself, I used to run Google drive for document sync on multiple devices, sometimes icloud as well, using Rsync and Tailscale i now have all files synced across devices for free! I will keep going with Debian it's been a excellent ride so far.1upvote·1comment
High CPU Usage in GNOME Shell. High CPU Usage in GNOME Shell.u/Ashee_Lucero•22 days agoHigh CPU Usage in GNOME Shell.Hey, I'm new to stuff like GNOME Shell and planning to switch to other desktop setups later. But man, I'm dealing with crazy high CPU usage, especially when flipping between windows and dragging the cursor like mad. It jumps from 5% to 60-100%, and the frame rate tanks, making the desktop a pain to use.Similar to this, it varies from 5 to 90% CPU usage(Well, if you see Brave browser with high usage, it was just that one time—it doesn't happen anymore)
Baffled why the 3D performance was atrocious on debian Baffled why the 3D performance was atrocious on debianu/dblkil•9 days agoBaffled why the 3D performance was atrocious on debian
Are legacy Nvidia drivers the end of Debian as we knew it? Are legacy Nvidia drivers the end of Debian as we knew it?u/Xizzan•22 days agoAre legacy Nvidia drivers the end of Debian as we knew it?I’m currently running an old office machine (i3-3220, 4GB RAM, GT 710, 120GB SSD). I installed Debian to learn Linux but I’ve hit a frustrating wall with Nvidia legacy support.Since Debian 13 is now Stable, I was disappointed to find the Nvidia 470xx drivers are missing due to kernel incompatibility. This forced me back to Debian 12.I’ve read about some workarounds involving pinning the driver from Sid, as it’s still available there for now, but that feels like a ticking time bomb rather than a real solution.I tried the Nouveau drivers on Trixie, but the flickering with Freesync was unbearable. Honestly, if I were prone to seizures, that screen would have ended me in about 3 seconds flat. It's basically a strobe light at this point.It’s ironic: we always say Debian is the king of "bringing old PCs back to life," but Nvidia’s closed-source legacy is effectively killing this hardware on the current Stable release.It's absurd that relatively powerful cards like the GTX 780 Ti aren't compatible in the same way as the GT 710. Is anyone reliably using a 700 series card on Trixie? Is it time to just admit that Nvidia legacy cards and modern Debian Stable are no longer compatible?EDIT: Since many replies are focusing on ideological purity or "workarounds" rather than the core issue, I want to clarify a few points.Telling users to "just use Nouveau" is technically misleading for the 700 series. Without reclocking support, even a powerful card like a 780 Ti is effectively castrated, performing like an iGPU. It's not just about "working", it's about being usable.Suggesting to pull drivers from other branches is a temporary "hack". Those packages will eventually disappear or break. A Stable release should provide reliable solutions, not encourage unstable workarounds.I have stated multiple times that Nvidia is a terrible company and the primary culprit. However, pointing fingers at Nvidia doesn't help the end-user. If Debian simply turns away, it’s the community that pays the price. A "Universal OS" should find ways to bridge these gaps, not just ignore them because the manufacturer is uncooperative.It’s ironic that Arch Linux, a rolling release, manages to maintain these drivers with constant patching despite weekly kernel updates. Debian, with its much slower release cycle, would only need a compatibility patch once every two years (per Stable release). Claiming it’s "too much work" for Debian while Arch does it constantly is factually inconsistent.To those saying I should have supported AMD/Intel: this is a logical fallacy. This is a budget, second-hand pre-assembled machine. I didn't "choose" to support Nvidia in 2026. I am repurposing existing hardware to keep it out of a landfill. Expecting users to have a "crystal ball" when they acquired hardware years ago is ridiculous.Driver support is one of the main reasons desktop users abandon Linux for Windows. While Debian remains ideologically consistent, its definition of "stability" is becoming "forced obsolescence" for many. This is a clear collision between free software purity and the practical right to keep perfectly functional hardware running.Instead of engaging in civil discussion about a real regression, many replies here relied on gatekeeping and logical fallacies ("start coding", "just change distro"). This defensive attitude is exactly what pushes new users away from Linux. Defending a distro shouldn't mean ignoring its flaws.
Debian 13.3 installer does not detect my main ssd Debian 13.3 installer does not detect my main ssdu/ilikebeans09•1 mo. agoDebian 13.3 installer does not detect my main ssd
The duality of a man, Mint vs Debian dealbreaker due to a VPN connection The duality of a man, Mint vs Debian dealbreaker due to a VPN connectionu/giquo•4 days agoThe duality of a man, Mint vs Debian dealbreaker due to a VPN connection
First ssh login without display First ssh login without displayu/zorzyk-jurek•4 days agoFirst ssh login without displayHi how to first ssh login without display on debian 13 raspberry?
Problems with desktop environment Problems with desktop environmentu/Sombra_WP0•4 days agoProblems with desktop environmentI cannot change the desktop environment in Debian, it only appears the default and gnome
The Console. The Console.u/mcds99•18 days agoThe Console.Everyone who is going to install any Linux distribution should have to do everything from the console for a year. I'm only joking.After 35 years of working in IT it seams like the newer users are afraid to type, they just want to click and make it all work. My first job was on UNIX System V and I learned everything at the console, VI was the editor, that's it. Then Main Frame with ELF, CICS, and all the others, then Netware with a menu and Wordperfect, Harvard Graphics, and Lotus 123.
Problems with KDE startup on Debian 13 Trixie Problems with KDE startup on Debian 13 Trixieu/realkikinovak•6 days agoProblems with KDE startup on Debian 13 TrixieHi,I'm running Debian 13 Trixie with KDE on my HP Z440 workstation. I have an NVidia GeForce GTX 1650 video card :$ lspci | grep -i vga 02:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation TU116 [GeForce GTX 1650] (rev a1)I'm using the X11 session in SDDM (I actually disabled the Wayland option under the hood), and I'm using the proprietary NVidia 550.x driver from the Debian repositories :All in all this setup works correctly. The video card is probably overkill for me since I'm not a gamer. The workstation is not, since I often have quite a lot of VMs and containers running. Here's what my KDE desktop looks like on a normal day on my dual monitor :Sometimes when I log in at the SDDM window, KDE's startup doesn't work out well, and here's an example of what I can get. You see that on the left pane the whole desktop is missing and only the taskbar is showing :What I do in this case is I log off and log back in again, which usually solves the problem. It's not really a showstopper, but it's unnerving anyway. I suspect the NVidia driver to be the cause of this, given their problematic history, but I'm not really sure.Any suggestions ?
Why is my Debian 12 (Bookworm) point release stuck on debian 12.13? Why is my Debian 12 (Bookworm) point release stuck on debian 12.13?u/reflect-on-this•5 days agoWhy is my Debian 12 (Bookworm) point release stuck on debian 12.13?Hello. Aftercat /etc/debian_versionI get the output: 12.13. I don't have the latest point release. I searched this on the net and it seems I may have a 'misconfigured sources.list**'.**My /etc/apt/sources.list reads:http://deb.debian.org/debianbookworm main contrib non-free-firmware.But it is not:https://deb.debian.org/debianIt doesn't have the more secure https website.Also for security and and updates I have the following:debhttp://security.debian.org/debian-security/bookworm-security main contrib non-free-firmwaredebhttp://deb.debian.org/debianbookworm-updates main contrib non-free-firmwareBut I am being suggested it should be:debhttps://deb.debian.org/debianbookworm-security main contrib non-free non-free-firmwaredebhttps://deb.debian.org/debianbookworm-updates main contrib non-free non-free-firmware.Can anyone advise if my /etc/apt/sources.list is misconfigured?
Basic Questions Megathread Basic Questions Megathreadu/AutoModerator•1 mo. agoBasic Questions MegathreadMegathreadHere, users who are new to Kali Linux can ask basic questions about it and its functionality and receive assistance regarding potential issues they are facing. Please remember to follow the subreddit rules when asking your questions.Before posting, make sure you have reviewedKali's Documentation, as the answer may be well-documented. Additionally, please refer to the following articles to ensure you ask proper and high-quality questions:How do I ask a good questionHow to ask questions the smart wayThe XY problemDon't ask to askPlease remember that while AI/LLM models like ChatGPT can be useful, they are not a substitute for proper troubleshooting. When seeking assistance, it's important to refer to the documentation of the tool, program, or OS you're using and to use your preferred search engine for further research.This megathread will be posted monthly.
Problem with Kali install on iMac early 2008 Problem with Kali install on iMac early 2008u/BlockDestroyer45•2 mo. agoProblem with Kali install on iMac early 2008Question - Kali General
Anyone else have WiFi issues on pi zero 2w? Anyone else have WiFi issues on pi zero 2w?u/jader242•2 mo. agoAnyone else have WiFi issues on pi zero 2w?Question - Kali ARMSo I’ve been running Kali on my pi zero 2w for a bit now, and I’ve been experiencing pretty consistent WiFi drops throughout this time. I run this pi headless, so it’s a pita everytime it happens (usually at least once a day, sometimes more). I’ll have to uart in, and sometimes it will be fixed by simply pinging google.com, but sometimes the entire wlan0 interface disappears and I’ll have to reboot to get it to come back up. This most recent time it happened, I grabbed the output from dmesg and I think this may be related? It was the only recent output related to brcmfmac[33345.865774] brcmfmac: mmc_submit_one: CMD53 sg block read failed -5 [33345.872206] brcmfmac: brcmf_sdio_rxglom: glom read of 3584 bytes failed: -5 [33345.879398] brcmfmac: brcmf_sdio_rxfail: abort command, terminate frame [33345.886629] brcmfmac: brcmf_sdio_hdparse: HW header length too long [33345.893004] brcmfmac: brcmf_sdio_rxfail: terminate frame [49796.579327] systemd-sslh-generator: Configuration directory '/etc/sslh/' does not exist! No units generated. [67045.307010] dwc2 3f980000.usb: new device is high-speed [67045.420740] dwc2 3f980000.usb: new device is high-speed [67045.479737] dwc2 3f980000.usb: new address 3 [80294.404781] ieee80211 phy0: brcmf_fw_crashed: Firmware has halted or crashed [80296.980933] brcmfmac: brcmf_sdio_bus_rxctl: resumed on timeout [80296.987338] brcmfmac: brcmf_sdio_checkdied: firmware trap in dongle [80296.994058] brcmfmac: dongle trap info: type 0x3 @ epc 0x00000000 cpsr 0x20000003 spsr 0x20000010 sp 0x0006fc0c lr   0x00009565 pc   0x00000000 offset 0x6fbb8 r0   0x000660fc r1   0x00036ee0 r2 0x00000021 r3 0x0007f020 r4   0x000581c0 r5   0x00000000 r6 0x00036ee0 r7 0x0007f020 [80296.994103] ieee80211 phy0: brcmf_fil_cmd_data: bus is down. we have nothing to do. [80297.001945] ieee80211 phy0: brcmf_pno_clean: failed code -5 [80297.007671] ieee80211 phy0: brcmf_fil_cmd_data: bus is down. we have nothing to do. [80297.015524] ieee80211 phy0: brcmf_cfg80211_get_tx_power: error (-5) [80297.672899] mmc1: card 0001 removedI’ve asked chatgpt as it’s an easy first option to troubleshoot stuff, and it said this is just a common issue with the nexmon WiFi driver for the pis internal WiFi hardware. But I though I’d come to the source to confirm if this is actually the case, or if there is something deeper going onSome things I’ve tried: moving the pi closer to my WiFi router, making a cronjob that pings Google every 1 minute to keep the interface up and connected, and tried booting the sd card in a different pi zero 2w to rule out hardware issues. This problem has continued to persist throughout all of itIs this just something I have to deal with to have monitor mode on the inbuilt WiFi hardware? If so, I may invest in an external adapter as it’s a huge pain in the ass uarting in a minimum of once per day to get my network interface back up and runningAppreciate any insight or tips anyone has 🙏Edit: added some more dmesg output linesEdit2: please excuse the shitty formatting on the dmesg section, idk what i'm doing nor how to make it look better lolEdit3: I think I figured the formatting thing out (I hope)
USB-to-HDMI (MacroSilicon 534d:6021) not working USB-to-HDMI (MacroSilicon 534d:6021) not workingu/ra-ji•2 mo. agoUSB-to-HDMI (MacroSilicon 534d:6021) not workingSetupI’m onKali Linux 2024.4 (kernel 6.17, GNOME X11)and need adual-monitor setup.My main monitor works viaGPU DisplayPort, but my second monitor is connected using aUSB-to-HDMI adapter (MacroSilicon 534d:6021 / MS912x). After extensive debugging, I’ve confirmed:The adapter is detected only asUSB + Audio, not as a displayxrandrnever shows a second connected monitorms912xdrivers fail to build on modern kernelsUSB HDMI MacroSilicon adaptersdo not work on LinuxlsusbBus 001 Device 009: ID 534d:6021 MacroSilicon VGA Display AdapterDo you have any solution and have any similar problem???
Performance issue on my VMware Performance issue on my VMwareu/ProfessionalGold3696•2 mo. agoPerformance issue on my VMwareQuestion - Kali PurpleI am using kali linux on my vmware and i am seeing high performance issue. Laptop - Asus TUF A14, R9 370 HX, 32GB Ram and RTX 4060. It barely runs youtube and installing updates takes a lot of time. I have been previously using it on a R3 3200G and 16GB Ram it was totally smooth I have also allocated enough resources 4 Core and 16 GB Ram, isn't that enough? Please tell me a fixI have tried multiple versions, and different distros of linux all showing the same issue, I have also tried Virtual Box and it was no good.
Mouse Size Issue M1 Pro Mouse Size Issue M1 Prou/04_Leonidas•2 mo. agoMouse Size Issue M1 ProQuestion - Kali General
Nvidia drivers Nvidia driversu/True-Campaign-5587•2 mo. agoNvidia driversQuestion - Kali GeneralHi everyone, good morning. I’m having a terrible problem with Kali Linux. I install the NVIDIA drivers, everything seems fine, I follow the steps on the official Kali Linux page, and when I reboot, it takes me to a TTY terminal. Doing commands like startx or systemctl restart lightdm brings me to my desktop, but when I reboot again, the same thing happens—I end up in the TTY terminal. I would like it to start directly in the desktop environment when I boot. I’ve been trying to fix this for a couple of hours and haven’t had any luck.Does anyone have any idea what might be happening?
Fail to download Live Boot installer Fail to download Live Boot installeru/zagmp3•2 mo. agoFail to download Live Boot installerQuestion - Kali GeneralIm trying to flash kali linux iso in my pendrive but when i go to the website and click download it justs says "Not Found" and doesnt install anything, what do i do?
Old iMac 2017 (Intel) – Kali only vs Mint + Kali dual boot for learning? Old iMac 2017 (Intel) – Kali only vs Mint + Kali dual boot for learning?u/Assum23•2 mo. agoOld iMac 2017 (Intel) – Kali only vs Mint + Kali dual boot for learning?Question - Kali GeneralHi everyone,I have an old iMac 2017 with Intel CPU. macOS is basically unusable now, so I want to replace it completely with Linux.The machine will be used only for learning and training, mainly: – cybersecurity basics – ethical hacking – Linux internals – red team / blue team concepts No daily work, no personal data.I’m currently deciding between two setups:Option 1: Only Kali Linux as the single OS Pros: full focus on security tools, real lab feeling Cons: less stable, more breakage riskOption 2: Linux Mint + Kali Linux (dual boot) Mint as a stable base / rescue system Kali only for training Pros: stability, easier recovery, blue team practice Cons: more setup, less “pure” Kali experienceMy goal is learning efficiently, not comfort, but I also don’t want to waste time reinstalling every week.For people with experience: – Is Kali-only realistic as a main system on older Intel Macs? – Does Mint + Kali actually help learning, or is it overkill? – Anything specific to watch out for on iMac hardware?Would appreciate honest opinions, especially from people who learned security this way.Thanks.
Kali Linux 2025.4 Release (Desktop Environments, Wayland & Halloween Mode) | Kali Linux Blog Kali Linux 2025.4 Release (Desktop Environments, Wayland & Halloween Mode) | Kali Linux Blogu/Arszilla•2 mo. agoKali Linux 2025.4 Release (Desktop Environments, Wayland & Halloween Mode) | Kali Linux BlogRelease Noteshttps://www.kali.org/blog/kali-linux-2025-4-release/
VirtualBox + Kali XFCE: Mouse Click Offset After Update (Tried Everything) VirtualBox + Kali XFCE: Mouse Click Offset After Update (Tried Everything)u/kyuskuys•2 mo. agoVirtualBox + Kali XFCE: Mouse Click Offset After Update (Tried Everything)Question - Kali GeneralI’m running the official Kali Linux VirtualBox VM (XFCE) on Windows 10 with VirtualBox 7, and after doing a full system upgrade (apt update && apt full-upgrade/upgrade/upgrade -y ), the mouse becomes misaligned. Whenever I click or try to select a line in a text editor or terminal, the selection happens one line above where my mouse actually is. The pointer looks normal, the click detection is what’s offset.This only happens after upgrading Kali. A fresh install works normally until the update, then the issue returns every time.Here’s everything I’ve already tried:Disabled 3D acceleration, toggled it on/off, and changed video memory.Switched graphics controllers between VMSVGA, VBoxVGA, and VBoxSVGA.Reinstalled guest additions (both from the ISO and from the repositories).Removed and reinstalled virtualbox-guest-utils and virtualbox-guest-x11.Tried resetting DPI, font scaling, and XFCE’s display settings.Tested XFCE session under X11.Deleted and recreated XFCE config files (~/.config/xfce4).Tried KDE as well and manually edited compositing settings.Created multiple brand-new Kali VMs from the official image; issue happens immediately after updating.Tried three different versions of VirtualBox 7Changed to tablet on VirtualBox settingsHere’s what actually works:If I run Kali XFCE on VMware, the mouse behaves normally. If I install Kali on VirtualBox 6.1, the problem also disappears. GNOME works, but I specifically want XFCE. At this point it seems like a VirtualBox 7 + XFCE + updated Kali combination breaks pointer mapping, but I’m hoping someone has found a workaround that doesn’t involve switching hypervisors or downgrading VirtualBox.If anyone has seen this before or found a fix, I’d really appreciate it.
Nethunter on S20FE (4G SM G780G) Nethunter on S20FE (4G SM G780G)u/Not_Moch•2 mo. agoNethunter on S20FE (4G SM G780G)Question - Kali NetHunterIve trying to install nethunter on my old s20fe for 3 hours straight and the only thing i achieved is a rooted phone. I dont have any clue on what i have to do after rooting the phone since Samsung doesnt have fastboot and twrp doesnt have a img for the 4G version. Ive looked every single video on yt but none of them are with a samsung or a s20fe 4G. Tried to look in every forum but nothing couldnt help so im taking reddit as a last resort.More context:SM-G780GRootedOEM UnlockedUnlocked bootloaderAndroid 13What im asking:Desperate help on a tutorial on how to flash nethunter on the S20FE 4G and, since kali only has the 5G, if its actually possible to flash it.
Is Kali purple still getting updated? Is Kali purple still getting updated?u/cgw22•2 mo. agoIs Kali purple still getting updated?Question - Kali PurpleLooking at the gitlab repo it looks like it hasn’t updated in 2 years? Is that correct? Just wondering if this is still an active project and relevant in 2025. Thanks!
Is this something to worry about? Is this something to worry about?u/Janclo•2 mo. agoIs this something to worry about?Question - Kali General
Basic Questions Megathread Basic Questions Megathreadu/AutoModerator•2 mo. agoBasic Questions MegathreadMegathreadHere, users who are new to Kali Linux can ask basic questions about it and its functionality and receive assistance regarding potential issues they are facing. Please remember to follow the subreddit rules when asking your questions.Before posting, make sure you have reviewedKali's Documentation, as the answer may be well-documented. Additionally, please refer to the following articles to ensure you ask proper and high-quality questions:How do I ask a good questionHow to ask questions the smart wayThe XY problemDon't ask to askPlease remember that while AI/LLM models like ChatGPT can be useful, they are not a substitute for proper troubleshooting. When seeking assistance, it's important to refer to the documentation of the tool, program, or OS you're using and to use your preferred search engine for further research.This megathread will be posted monthly.
Unable to login to live USB Unable to login to live USBu/minetech48•3 mo. agoUnable to login to live USBQuestion - Kali GeneralEdit: I was being driven insane by my own forgetfulness, and, apparently, inability to read. I was not, in fact, booting to a USB drive, and was instead booting to another partition on my computer that I had forgotten about.Hi, I just recently downloaded the latest (2025.3) USB live boot image, and flashed it to a USB drive via Rufus (tried ISO mode and DD, in case there was a difference), but I can't seem to log in to the live user.Kali documentation says the login should be User:kaliPass:kali, but that gave me an invalid login. I tried User:rootPass:toorwith no luck there either.I have used the Kali live USB in the past on an older 2024 image with no issues, but I have since wiped that drive.Is there a different default live USB login than what's on the docs? Am I looking in the wrong place? thanks.
Has anyone experimented with custom kernels on Kali to streamline performance for specific tasks (e.g., wireless auditing, VM optimization)? Has anyone experimented with custom kernels on Kali to streamline performance for specific tasks (e.g., wireless auditing, VM optimization)?u/Betty_Rav1oli•3 mo. agoHas anyone experimented with custom kernels on Kali to streamline performance for specific tasks (e.g., wireless auditing, VM optimization)?Question - Kali General
Should i dual boot Should i dual bootu/The_j0kker•3 mo. agoShould i dual bootQuestion - Kali GeneralAs the title states, i would like to get into kali, is it allright if i dual boot my Ubuntu laptop with it ? Or is it better to VM ?
Has anyone gotten Kali to run on System76 laptops with driver support Has anyone gotten Kali to run on System76 laptops with driver supportu/Salemx27x•3 mo. agoHas anyone gotten Kali to run on System76 laptops with driver supportQuestion - Kali GeneralMuch to my surprise this project has been a challenge attempting to install their Ubuntu compatible drivers ended in my fans going full speed so it's not an option for me. Besides just running Ubuntu or just using a USB drive does anyone have any suggestions? =On a USB drive I have no right click and none of my F keys works.
Nethunter rootless installation problem Nethunter rootless installation problemu/varro986•3 mo. agoNethunter rootless installation problemQuestion - Kali GeneralNethunter rootless installation problemHi,tried to install nethunter but failed.I tried both on Samsung Galaxy S23 (Stock) and Samsung S6 Lite (LineageOS).Termux from F-Droid doesn't seems to work on both (pkg update and upgrade fails, tried to change repo but same error).So i tried to use Termux Google Play version, everything works fine until i try to load kex.I'm able to start a vnc xterm session but not xfce or lxde, there i got a ECONNREFUSEDI really don't have a clue on what i'm doing wrong. Anyone with same experience?
OLD Dell Optiplex780 Windows 7 machine ( unknown exact version, or update status when it was put away) Booting form Kali Live USB does not "see"  the HDD in the dell( can see it in boot options during post. ) OLD Dell Optiplex780 Windows 7 machine ( unknown exact version, or update status when it was put away) Booting form Kali Live USB does not "see"  the HDD in the dell( can see it in boot options during post. )u/DunKco•3 mo. agoOLD Dell Optiplex780 Windows 7 machine ( unknown exact version, or update status when it was put away) Booting form Kali Live USB does not "see"  the HDD in the dell( can see it in boot options during post. )Question - Kali GeneralI am NEW to Kali and Linux, trying to recover some pictures off of and old Windows 7 ( unknown exact version, or update status when it was put away) Dell Optiplex 780( this is for and elderly friend)... CMOS battery was low, changed it and windows failed "windows failed to start : A recent hardware or software change...etc" missing or corrupted winload.exe".it was Suggested in a windows group i boot to Kali live.I created a boot-able usb with latest Kali Live and etcher, boots fine, just doesn't see the HDD in the Dell.( side-note Hirens boot-able USB  doesn't see it either)i see the drive (ST31000528AS) in POST as a boot option so it seems to be functions physically.It was also suggested "mount the drive", but being new to Kali and Linux in general i dont understand how.Any insight/suggestions?Thank you !
I developed an UI for Kali tools, KaliX-Terminal I developed an UI for Kali tools, KaliX-Terminalu/Bastion80•3 mo. agoI developed an UI for Kali tools, KaliX-TerminalQuestion - Kali GeneralHello, inspired by the useless and outdated eDEX UI I started working on a terminal app to make it colorful and cyberpunk/hacker themed. Then I began adding support for Kali tools, making it possible to build commands using simple forms (because… what is a hacker terminal app without hacker features??). I ended up supporting 346 Kali tools. I probably created the most script kiddie friendly app ever and I do not know if that is a good thing.I love it though, I am working on it and improving it constantly. It already includes a small description for every tool but I will probably add a button to show full documentation and usage for each one.It is compatible with all Debian based distros that have kali tools installed, or Kali directly (full package). For now tools are not detected automatically by the app, but in the future I will add direct installation for missing tools.What do you think about it?https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RA7qBNeNZo8
PostgreSQL not working on NetHunter-Termux — any alternative? PostgreSQL not working on NetHunter-Termux — any alternative?u/yuhan24•3 mo. agoPostgreSQL not working on NetHunter-Termux — any alternative?Question - Kali NetHunterI'm using NetHunter-Termux on my Android device, and PostgreSQL completely fails to initialize. I get the error:could not create shared memory segment: Function not implemented initdb: removing contents of data directoryIt seems like PostgreSQL cannot run on this environment at all.My question: Is there any workaround or alternative database that works with Metasploit on NetHunter-Termux? Or maybe a lightweight replacement (SQLite, MariaDB, remote PostgreSQL, etc.) that someone has successfully used?Any solution or advice would be appreciated.
Running Kubernetes on Kali Linux… on a Raspberry Pi. Yes, I know. Don’t yell at me. Running Kubernetes on Kali Linux… on a Raspberry Pi. Yes, I know. Don’t yell at me.[deleted]•3 mo. agoRunning Kubernetes on Kali Linux… on a Raspberry Pi. Yes, I know. Don’t yell at me.SetupOkay so this wasn’t supposed to become a “server story”… but here we are.When we first picked up a Raspberry Pi atAsynx Devs, the idea was simple keep a portable device withKali Linuxfor quick on-the-go security testing, random experiments, and basically a tiny Swiss-army knife for work.Nothing serious. Nothing “production-grade”.And then laziness did its magic.Instead of migrating things to a proper server, we kept experimenting on the Pi.One thing led to another…“Let’s try containerizing this.”“Okay, maybe Kubernetes will work too?”“Wait, why is this actually stable?”So this is one of those setups that just evolved on its own.We originally had a Raspberry Pi runningKali Linuxnothing fancy, just a portable box for quick experiments, security testing, and general “dev laziness toolkit”.Then the usual chaos happened:“Let’s try running Docker on it.”“Okay… what if we try Kubernetes?”“Wait… it actually works?”Fast-forward and now this little Pi has somehow ended up asone of our Kubernetes master nodes.Yes, onKali.Yes, on aPi.And yes, I know the K8s community is probably reading this like:But here’s the twist it’s not even a joke setup anymore.We run atwo-master failover setup(typical HA architecture).If Master-1 dies, this Pi (Master-2) takes over the control plane. So the workers don’t stop.It’s a standard K8s HA pattern… just running on a verynon-standardOS and hardware.Is it practical?Surprisingly, yes.Is it recommended?Probably not.Is it funny that a device originally bought for portability now handles cluster orchestration?Absolutely.Anyway, just wanted to drop this here because I know folks in the Kubernetes and Kali communities will either love the madness or yell at me. Either way, it’s worth sharing.Happy to talk more about any more weird setups.
Problems with raspberry 5 and NetworkManager Problems with raspberry 5 and NetworkManageru/Wrong-Programmer-322•3 mo. agoProblems with raspberry 5 and NetworkManagerQuestion - Kali ARMHey there! As the title says, I am having problems with my raspberry connecting to internet. 2 days ago, I accidentally fed current trough 2 ways on my raspi for about 1-5 seconds (trough the gpio pins and trough the usb-c) while trying to charge my UPS. I got scared, and just cut off power. My initial thought was to get the sd card out, and check everything. The raspi didn't seem burned or anything, it was looking perfectly fine. I decided to reflash the sd card (that was what I wanted to do before the incident). I am using raspberry pi imager. But when I booted again on the newly flashed raspberry, the wifi just refused to connect.I thought the wifi chip was fried, but after some inspecting I found out it was working perfectly well. On boot, I got the "could not start networking.service. Raising interfaces" message. When i wanted to connect to wifi using nmcli, it was saying "secrets required, but not provided" (i tried using the following command, i used gemini to help me fix this but failed: sudo nmcli dev wifi connect "ssid" password "password". I also tried the --ask). Then, I thought i would flash official operating system to see if the wifi chip works, and it does.My question is: what is going on? Why doesn't the raspberry connecting to wifi? And why did it even work before reflashing?I don't know if it has to do with tooling, I really think the os is failing and I do not know why. I also tried updating, it did not workAlso, sorry for any repetitions or grammar mistakes, I don't really speak English every day
I'm struggling with lightdm with nvidia driver install, getting stuck in tty loop I'm struggling with lightdm with nvidia driver install, getting stuck in tty loopu/mjwall09121•3 mo. agoI'm struggling with lightdm with nvidia driver install, getting stuck in tty loopQuestion - Kali GeneralIs there anyone who can give me information on how to blacklist the nouveau and install nvidia graphics for the 3060 in kali linux 2025.3? i need a good step-by-step guide, im familiar with linux to a point i can make it my daily driver but uh i just wasnt anticipating the nvidia driver install to be so annoying, i dont WANT to run it in a vm because i am trying to use it natively. the .run didnt work either
Kali a bit lagged in a good PC Kali a bit lagged in a good PCu/W4TERMOJADA•3 mo. agoKali a bit lagged in a good PCQuestion - Kali GeneralI’ve been testing Kali on VMware, and although it works fine, it’s not completely smooth. I understand that Kali might not be an OS designed to run 100% fluidly, but I’ve often seen other people using it run much more smoothly.The resources of my PC aren’t an issue—I usually allocate 8 GB of RAM, which should be more than enough. I’ve also tried installing VMware Tools.Any tips from the more experienced Kali users?
Kali general compatibility question Kali general compatibility questionu/CLA_1989•3 mo. agoKali general compatibility questionQuestion - Kali GeneralSo, this is going to be a weird one, bear with meTLDR: Does Kali work well with a Chromebook converted with mrchromebox?Full question:So my boss gifted me one of the machines that was set to be destroyed, a brand new Dell 5430 Chromebook 2 in 1, but I don't like ChromeOS.(Crota360, I7 Alder Lake, Intel Iris Graphics)I made a suzyqable and did the firmware change, so now, allegedly, I can install any Linux os.I installed Pop!OS but, after opening the lid and logging in, takes some 30 seconds and then the screen goes black and locks, then I have to log in again, and that happens every time I open the lid.So I moved to Ubuntu as I have a 5420 that is in ubuntu and works fine(but I am not giving up on using this 2 in 1 in linux) but beside the same issue(which apparently is a common issue due to several factors) Ubuntu has no audio, apparently Quoka messed things up for a lot of computers and I tried "tested" solutions, like 6-7 that didn't workSo I was wondering if these are also known issues in Kali, my security course recommends using Kali for it, so I if that is the case and there is no issue, then I rather install Kali and be done with it.
First-ever interview with one of Kali NetHunter developers @yesimxev is live First-ever interview with one of Kali NetHunter developers @yesimxev is liveu/barakadua131•3 mo. agoFirst-ever interview with one of Kali NetHunter developers @yesimxev is liveBlogposthttps://www.mobile-hacker.com/2025/11/11/inside-the-mind-of-a-kali-nethunter-developer-a-deep-dive-with-yesimxev/
How can I stop Kali from turning off the screen on idle? How can I stop Kali from turning off the screen on idle?u/BMXnotFIX•3 mo. agoHow can I stop Kali from turning off the screen on idle?Question - Kali GeneralI'm running Kali in a VM with qemu on Debian 12 and if I leave my laptop sit for awhile, Kali will blank the screen and go to the luck screen upon wake. This interrupts certain tasks if they're running when this happens. I've made sure Debian has everything disabled and I've tested to make sure the screen and os stay up on idle so I know it's Kali that's doing it. In Kali I've set system sleep mode even inactive to never, unchecked lock screen when system is going to sleep, and disabled display power management in power Manager and disabled screensaver and lock screen in screensaver preferences. It still blanks the screen after a few minutes and requires login upon wake. This wouldn't be a huge issue in and of itself, but (I'm assuming because of qemu) processes get interrupted when this happens, my terminal that tasks were running in gets frozen, and my USB passthrough devices stop working. Easiest fix seemed to be to make the laptop stay awake, but I can't seem to figure out how to make that work. Anyone have any ideas?
Help: Alfa (MT7612U) on Raspberry Pi 5 — Tx power stuck at 3 dBm (need fixes / driver advice) Help: Alfa (MT7612U) on Raspberry Pi 5 — Tx power stuck at 3 dBm (need fixes / driver advice)u/Artistic_Bathroom93•3 mo. agoHelp: Alfa (MT7612U) on Raspberry Pi 5 — Tx power stuck at 3 dBm (need fixes / driver advice)Question - Kali ARMHi all — posting here because I’ve hit a brick wall and would appreciate any practical advice.Setup:Raspberry Pi 5, Kali Linux (kernel ~6.x)Alfa USB Wi-Fi adapter (MT7612U chipset — AWUS036AXML or similar clone)Adapter used via a USB hub (originally a powerbank, later a powered hub/AC)Goal: get txpower to the allowed max  for pentesting/monitor modeWhat I’ve tried so far (commands / observations):Set regulatory domain and attempted to set tx power:sudo iw reg set HR sudo iwconfig wlan1 txpower 20 sudo iw dev wlan1 set txpower fixed 2000Result: iwconfig / wavemon shows Tx-Power=3 dBm (sometimes briefly a different low value).Power checks:vcgencmd get_throttledAt first it returned 0x50000 (undervoltage / usb current limit). I then connected the hub to mains (and rebooted); now it returns 0x0 — so undervoltage is resolved.Diagnostics I ran:iwconfig wlan1 iw dev wlan1 info lsusb -t sudo dmesg | grep -i mt76 wavemon -i wlan1lsusb -t initially showed 500mA entries (hub was behaving like it wasn’t truly self-powered). After switching to mains and rebooting the Pi, power looks fine, vcgencmd is 0x0, but tx power is still 3 dBm.dmesg | grep -i mt76 often doesn’t show obvious “power limited” errors (or returns nothing relevant), yet the adapter behaves like it’s in a low-power fallback enforced by the driver/firmware.What I’ve concluded so far:The undervoltage/current-limit problem was real and resolved (Pi shows 0x0).The persistent Tx-Power=3 dBm now appears to be a driver/firmware or chipset limitation (MT7612U + mt76 driver on Pi5/kali kernel behavior).My questions:Anyone seen this exact behavior with MT7612U on Raspberry Pi 5? How did you get real TX up to ~17–20 dBm or more?Which driver version worked for you? (stock mt76 in kernel vs mt76 from GitHub / OpenWRT, or other drivers?) Any useful dmesg lines to look for?Recommended USB Wi-Fi adapters that reliably reach full legal TX on Pi5 (and support monitor/injection)? (examples I’ve seen suggested: RTL8812AU-based, RTL8852AU-based, Atheros AR9271)If anyone has a supported driver/firmware sequence that improved MT7612U TX on Pi5, what outputs should I paste for easier diagnosis? (I can post iwconfig, iw dev info, dmesg | grep -i mt76, vcgencmd get_throttled, lsusb -t, wavemon output.)Thanks in advance — any pointers, tested hardware recommendations or config tips very welcome!
(Gnome) (How-to) Bring back the original libadwaita theme (Gnome) (How-to) Bring back the original libadwaita themeu/AnybodyAccomplished2•3 mo. ago(Gnome) (How-to) Bring back the original libadwaita themeSetupHi all, this is my first post in this sub. Let me starts off by:- I practice penetration test & red teaming- I agree that Kali is not suitable for general daily usageI know efforts have been made to make Kali's desktop more beautiful & stunning. It's not like I hate the Kali's logo/theming, but sometimes I just prefer the original libadwaita  or "vanilla" gnome experience.Seems that Kali's gnome theme is built into the libadwaita package, and Kali's repos don't ship the unmodified version of the package.Remove the Kali Dragon Window Titlebar OnlyIn ~/.config/gtk-4.0/gtk.css, add:windowhandle {   background-image: none; }(I checked this using the GTK Inspector, Ctrl-Shift-I)For GTK3 theme, use gnome-tweaks to change to any other theme. You may also add the following to ~/.config/gtk-3.0/gtk.css (or fork their adw-gtk3-kali & edit) to remove the dragon in the adw-gtk3-kali theme:.titlebar {   background-image: none; }  /* Optional, there is also a very small white window border in adw-gtk3-kali, you may want to remove it too */ decoration {   border-width: 0; }(Also derived by using the GTK 3 Inspector)Finally, logout&login again to apply the changes."Full"(or close to full) Original Libadwaita ExperienceBig Thanks to lassekongo83 for adw-gtk3 theme (an unofficial theme to port libadwaita for GTK3 apps). It actually has a "copy" of the original GTK4 version of libadwaita css in /gtk-4.0/gtk.cssThe idea is to use the lassekongo83's adw-gtk3 theme for GTK3/4 application and un-do any small Kali customizations found not overwritten by the adw-gtk3 theme.Download the adw-gtk3 theme from GitHub lassekongo83/adw-gtk3Put it in .local/share/themesset environment variable GTK_THEME=adw-gtk3. For example: add export GTK=THEME=adw-gtk3 to ~/.profileIf you logout & login again, the buttons will look like this:This is because kali has some custom css for the buttons background. To undo it, I put the below to ~/.config/gtk-4.0/gtk.csswindowcontrols > button {   background: inherit; }Finally, logout & login again to apply the changes.Applying other GTK4 themes in generalSet GTK_THEME environment variable.Use the GTK Inspector to inspect any kali's customization not overridden by your theme. Write CSS that "counter" the Kali's customization one by one manually and put the code in .config/gtk-4.0/gtk.cssOther Alternatives: Install libadwaita from Debian Sid (might not worth it)- Not suitable for those in kali-lastsnapshot or who don't want to update now)- may break updates in the future(?), kali-rolling should be somewhat "synchronized" with debian testing, but there's no guarantee that debian sid package would just work, might not worth the effort or risk(?)- (Only do this if your Kali is in kali-rolling and is already up-to-date), install libadwaita-1-0 from debian testing- Refer to docs, add config in /etc/apt/preferences.d/ that prefer installing liadwaita from debian testing instead.
Thinking of starting coding on kali-linux, how should I start? Thinking of starting coding on kali-linux, how should I start?u/Whiterun_guard56•3 mo. agoThinking of starting coding on kali-linux, how should I start?DiscussionI have prior with Java, wanna learn Linux as a hobby. how does one start and any videos that yall would recommend I should watch? Honestly I just wanna fuck around a little with my friends, maybe eventually turn it into something serious
Kali shutdowns randomly. Kali shutdowns randomly.u/768mehadi•3 mo. agoKali shutdowns randomly.Question - Kali GeneralI have used Kali-Live for a couple of days and really liked it. So I decided to use Kali as my primary OS (I wanted to get rid of windows for a long time). I downloaded the Kali image installer and used balenaEtcher to flash and installed it to my PC. All seemed to be fine at first but sometimes the log out dialogue box appears randomly and the system shuts down, I have tried to cancel the dialogue box but it doesn't make any difference, the computer shuts down anyway. This don't happen all the time, most of the times the PC runs just fine. But sometimes it just shuts down randomly. This can be frustrating, specially when I am working on something. I tried reinstalling the OS  several times thinking that it might fix the problem. But I have the same problem even after doing so.Is there any way to fix this problem? I thought that I might have some problem in my hardware I ran a full system diagnostics but I could not find any problem with the hardware as well.Edit: I was able to fix the problem by changing the SGX setting in BIOS. Now I runs without any problem.
Mirrors for Kali gvm SCAP data? Mirrors for Kali gvm SCAP data?u/noobposter123•3 mo. agoMirrors for Kali gvm SCAP data?Question - Kali GeneralHi are there any mirrors for gvm SCAP data?I've installed Kali and in the process of trying greenbone and stuck at the feed syncing step. When I run greenbone-feed-sync --type scap -vvv it shows that the speed is in single digit kilobytes per second. It keeps failing after 20+ hours and when I restart it starts from 0%. I suspect that the update speed is so slow that the source is changed before my update can complete.My connection is 1Gbps (tested withfast.cometc), so that's not the bottleneck.Any suggestions? Will it work if I did the sync from a place closer to Germany (where I suspect the source is)? What speeds are you getting?
Kali Linux on VMware Fusion (MacBook Air M2) Resolution issue Kali Linux on VMware Fusion (MacBook Air M2) Resolution issueu/zazizoza•3 mo. agoKali Linux on VMware Fusion (MacBook Air M2) Resolution issueSetupHey everyone,I’m running Kali Linux on VMware Fusion Pro on my MacBook Air M2 (13.6 inch), and I’m struggling with the screen resolution. The display looks blurry or low-res. HiDPI mode technically fixes the resolution but it messes up Burp Suite even when I adjust the scaling settings inside Burp.Has anyone found a good VMware display setting or xrandr configuration that gives a crisp resolution without enabling HiDPI?Thanks!
Basic Questions Megathread Basic Questions Megathreadu/AutoModerator•3 mo. agoBasic Questions MegathreadMegathreadHere, users who are new to Kali Linux can ask basic questions about it and its functionality and receive assistance regarding potential issues they are facing. Please remember to follow the subreddit rules when asking your questions.Before posting, make sure you have reviewedKali's Documentation, as the answer may be well-documented. Additionally, please refer to the following articles to ensure you ask proper and high-quality questions:How do I ask a good questionHow to ask questions the smart wayThe XY problemDon't ask to askPlease remember that while AI/LLM models like ChatGPT can be useful, they are not a substitute for proper troubleshooting. When seeking assistance, it's important to refer to the documentation of the tool, program, or OS you're using and to use your preferred search engine for further research.This megathread will be posted monthly.
Installing Protonvpn on Kali Linux Installing Protonvpn on Kali Linuxu/thegingerbeardman89•4 mo. agoInstalling Protonvpn on Kali LinuxQuestion - Kali GeneralInstalling on Kali Linuxr/ProtonVPN•4 mo. agoInstalling on Kali LinuxI have gone through the instructions on the website to a T to install Kali Linux, and when I go to sudo apt install proton-vpn-gnome-desktop it says no package available. Any idea on what I might be doing wrong?1upvote·2comments
kali nethunter xfce problem kali nethunter xfce problemu/HED910•4 mo. agokali nethunter xfce problemQuestion - Kali NetHunter
Do you use Kali Linux as your main OS or just on the side? How do you set it up? Do you use Kali Linux as your main OS or just on the side? How do you set it up?u/Low-Agency-3233•4 mo. agoDo you use Kali Linux as your main OS or just on the side? How do you set it up?Question - Kali GeneralI’m curious how most people actually use Kali day to day.Do you run it as yourmainoperating system, or just on the side for pentesting and security stuff?If it’s on the side, do you:Use Windows as your main OS and run Kali in a VM (like VirtualBox or VMware)?Or use another Linux distro as your main system and keep Kali as a secondary setup?Anyone here dual-boot it or use a tool that lets you access Kali directly from another OS (without full dual-boot)?Just wondering what the most practical setup is in real-world use.
Running on the latest 6.16.8 kernel. Can't install any preferred drivers Running on the latest 6.16.8 kernel. Can't install any preferred driversu/4sm0-bus•4 mo. agoRunning on the latest 6.16.8 kernel. Can't install any preferred driversQuestion - Kali GeneralI recently updated my kali on a 2012 mac Air to the 6.16.8 kernel. had an issue when updating my system and it decided to go into a kernel panic. booted into 6.12.38 kernel to try fix it (nothing worked) but I decided to just re-flash the whole thing, BIOS and all.Problem now is that currently with the whole new install of the kernel (now kali purp, not that it should matter), none of the headers are working with the drivers I wanna install.- BCM4360 for the onboard wifi and BT- RTL8812au for the most generic activities.simply plug-n-play dongles and USB-ETH works, but this still causes a lot of restrictions for me.anyone got a fix for this?P.S. Apparently the RTL8812au issue is mainly because "make" can't find the drv_types.h when trying to build from the aircrack-ng repo.
nethunter kex cannot start nethunter kex cannot startu/Intelligent-Iron-632•4 mo. agonethunter kex cannot startQuestion - Kali NetHunterjust installed nethunter on Android phone and tried to start kex however localhost seems to have a lock, please see attached screenshot... any ideas how to fix ?
Kali Dragon 2.3.0 Kali Dragon 2.3.0u/dontchooseanickname•4 mo. agoKali Dragon 2.3.0DiscussionKali Dragon 2.3.0r/origami•4 mo. agoKali Dragon 2.3.037upvotes·4comments
Virtualbox or VMware for Kali in low-end PC Virtualbox or VMware for Kali in low-end PCu/Annihilator-WarHead•4 mo. agoVirtualbox or VMware for Kali in low-end PCQuestion - Kali GeneralI have an i5-8th Thinkpad and I was wondering which one would be better to use where Kali would run smoother and faster in it. I have 16Gb or RAM not the best but I think enough for one or two Kali VMs if I push it.
Is Kali Spyware? Is Kali Spyware?u/Polararmadillo•4 mo. agoIs Kali Spyware?Question - Kali GeneralHello there. I was just doing some research and found something that i wanted to share with you guys. I used to have a Computer with Kali Linux on it. You know the ususal "i'll be a hacker and look cool". I started this app "Wireshark" and watched some traffic. "Huh. That's odd. So much traffic but i don't do anything". I restart and look again. Same thing. I wondered why and did some reseach.Backtrack. The predecessor to Kalo Linux. Developed by Martin J. Münch.BackTrack – WikipediaHuh. Interestin guy. Let's see if i can find something more about him.Oh boy....Die Achse des Guten | ndr.deNach Pfändung: Staatstrojaner-Hersteller FinFisher „ist geschlossen und bleibt es auch“These articles are in german but basically he helped develop spyware for the government.The same guy who helped develop an OS which is the predecessor to Kalo Linux.The same Kali Linux that just spams out random packages even when i don't do anything.I mean if you think about it it's a pretty clever idea. Develop an OS "especially for hackers". Then wait a bit and let the media tell everyone how great and secure it is. Then just watch the "hackers" when they do something. Don't chase them. Let them come to you. Genius reallyI've been going down a cybersecurity path for some time now and i realised: You don't need Kali Linux. You need NMAP? sudo apt install nmap. It's not that hard. You do NOT need 600 packaged presinstalled of which most you don't know or will ever need.I want to hear your guys' opinion on that
Update Hash issues this morning - anyone else? Update Hash issues this morning - anyone else?u/mustangsal•4 mo. agoUpdate Hash issues this morning - anyone else?Question - Kali GeneralLooks like the Repo is in a weird state...  Anyone else seeing this?Error: Failed to fetchhttps://kali.download/kali/dists/kali-rolling/main/Contents-amd64.gzFile has unexpected size (51642737 != 52512712). Mirror sync in progress? [IP: 104.17.253.239 443]Hashes of expected file:- Filesize:52512712 [weak]- SHA256:fea8e45e3b39f01aaea995843fbb183b576c047d9fafa76570007a29c0f542ff- SHA1:269807580cb42cd19f08a84801e0d866ded12948 [weak]- MD5Sum:83cd8660bdb9c89cd56da33a19abdd86 [weak]Release file created at: Wed, 22 Oct 2025 12:03:52 +0000Error: Some index files failed to download. They have been ignored, or old ones used instead.
How to add files to custom simple-cdd? How to add files to custom simple-cdd?u/ganglem•4 mo. agoHow to add files to custom simple-cdd?Question - Kali GeneralHi everyone,after endless trial and error, I am asking you for help.My goal is to create a custom Linux .iso installer using simple-cdd (actually, kali linux as per:https://gitlab.com/kalilinux/build-scripts/kali-installer). In that image, I want custom files to be available in a preconfigured user's home directory. Creating the user and folder structure is fine but I struggle at the custom file.In the simple-cdd.conf, there is a line "all_extras", where you can add files to the image. However, I am neither successful at adding them nor finding them.Note that I am NOT talking about packages, they work fine, it's just custom files and scripts that I need pre-added.Maybe someone can point me into the right direction?Thanks in advance!
Emergency Self Destruction not working Emergency Self Destruction not workingu/Miserable_Watch_943•4 mo. agoEmergency Self Destruction not workingSetupI’m running Kali Linux on a Live USB with encrypted persistence.Whilst I’m logged into the encrypted persistent volume, I’m running the command:sudo dpkg-reconfigure cryptsetup-nuke-passwordI then enter my password and confirm, and the nuke password is successfully stored, but I get this message from update-initramfs:update-initramfs is disabled (live system is running on read-only media).I have tried so many things to get this working. Nothing actually works.Anyone got the solution to this? I’m running on a fresh install of Kali too, just running after I’ve encrypted a persistent volume and rebooted into that volume. Would really appreciate the help.
Kali only boots to console (TTY), desktop only works after “sudo systemctl restart lightdm” — Xorg “Server is already active for display 0” + nomodeset issues (MateBook E Intel) Kali only boots to console (TTY), desktop only works after “sudo systemctl restart lightdm” — Xorg “Server is already active for display 0” + nomodeset issues (MateBook E Intel)u/After-Temporary-4649•4 mo. agoKali only boots to console (TTY), desktop only works after “sudo systemctl restart lightdm” — Xorg “Server is already active for display 0” + nomodeset issues (MateBook E Intel)SetupHi everyone — I recently installed Kali Linux (amd64, latest build) on a Huawei MateBook E (11th Gen Intel i3, NVMe SSD).The installation finished without errors and LightDM is installed and enabled, but on most boots I end up only in the console (TTY). The graphical desktop doesn’t start automatically.If I log in and run: sudo systemctl restart lightdm then the XFCE desktop starts and works perfectly — network, graphics, everything.But after reboot, it goes back to console again.Here’s what happens:• With “nomodeset” in GRUB, Kali boots but only to console (no GPU driver).• Without “nomodeset”, the system hangs during boot or shows pixel artifacts on screen and freezes.• When checking logs, LightDM is active/running but Xorg sometimes shows: “Fatal server error: Server is already active for display 0” “If this server is no longer running, remove /tmp/.X0-lock” • Kernel logs also spam a lot of ASoC / HDMI audio errors like: sof-audio-pci-intel-tgl ... ASoC error (-22) (I think they are unrelated.) • I reinstalled “kali-desktop-xfce”, “lightdm”, ran “apt full-upgrade”, and checked GRUB, but the problem stays.• I also set LightDM as default graphical target with: sudo systemctl set-default graphical.targetBasically, the only way to reach the desktop is by running “sudo systemctl restart lightdm” manually after every boot.I would really appreciate help understanding why LightDM/X doesn’t auto-start on boot, and how to fix the display driver issue (so I can remove nomodeset).Questions:Why is LightDM not starting automatically even though it’s enabled and active?Is the “Server is already active for display 0” error caused by a stale X lock or a crash loop?What’s the correct Intel/Mesa driver or firmware to install for this MateBook E (11th Gen Intel) so it can boot without “nomodeset”?How can I properly debug LightDM/Xorg startup to find the root cause?Useful info I can share (if needed):/etc/default/grubuname -asudo journalctl -b -u lightdm --no-pagersudo journalctl -b -p err --no-pagerdmesg(kernel logs)lspci -k | egrep -i 'vga|3d|display|nvidia|intel|amd'/var/log/Xorg.0.logorjournalctl -b _COMM=Xorg --no-pagersystemctl status lightdm --no-pagerSystem details: • Kali GNU/Linux Rolling 2025.x• Kernel 6.16.8+kali-amd64• Desktop: XFCE• Device: Huawei MateBook E (Intel i3 11th Gen, integrated graphics)• Bootline: GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="nomodeset"Any hints or working configs for similar Intel hardware would be amazing.Thanks a lot in advance — I can post logs or pastebin links if needed!
virtmanager (KVM/QEMU) virtualization, should I use the qcow2 or just grab the ISO? virtmanager (KVM/QEMU) virtualization, should I use the qcow2 or just grab the ISO?u/InterestingGrowth526•4 mo. agovirtmanager (KVM/QEMU) virtualization, should I use the qcow2 or just grab the ISO?Setuppretty much the title honestly, I tried setting up a Kali VM for CTFs on virt-manager and, after downloading the recommended QEMU qcow2 and trying to load it with Kali Linux, I was just unable to set it up at all.then, decided to go read the documentation to see if I'd get any clue as of what I am doing wrong, and instead of showing the process with qcow2 it showcases loading a Kali ISO instead (I have no clue if this is due to this session not being updated or what)so, for those that use Kali on virtmanager, is it better to use the qcow2 provided OR to just grab an ISO? (and if the qcow2 disk is preferred, I really need a tutorial to understand why is it not being able to be set up.)
Bad Experience with virtualization Bad Experience with virtualizationu/IslandLegitimate2853•4 mo. agoBad Experience with virtualizationQuestion - Kali GeneralHey guys, how are you all? 👋I recently built a high-performance PC, and here are the specs: •	CPU: i7-1400K •	GPU: ASUS TUF RTX 4070 Super (12 GB) •	RAM: 64 GBI’ve been having a bad experience with VMware. I tried installing Kali Linux using the ISO method, but it feels really slow and laggy. I also tried the VMware prebuilt image—same issue. And please don’t say “increase RAM or CPU usage,” because I’ve already done that, and it didn’t help.With VirtualBox, everything worked fine at first, but after around two months it also started to get slow and laggy, just like VMware.Here’s what I’ve already tried, but none of these helped: •	Increased RAM allocation •	Increased CPU cores •	Enabled 3D acceleration (also tried disabling it—no difference) •	Disabled Hyper-V and any related features in WindowsPlease, I’m looking for real solutions, because I’m tired of this issue. I just want a smooth experience running Kali Linux.
little ghost in kali linux website footer little ghost in kali linux website footeru/rafael4ndre•4 mo. agolittle ghost in kali linux website footerQuestion - Kali GeneralDid any of you seen this little ghost before? It moves from side to side on the website. Never seen it before today.
Bluetooth not working on Kali Linux Bluetooth not working on Kali Linuxu/AncientSuggestion757•4 mo. agoBluetooth not working on Kali LinuxQuestion - Kali GeneralBluetooth not working on Kali LinuxHi everyone,I've been struggling with a Bluetooth issue since I installed Kali-Linux 2 weeks ago with dual boot to Windows in my laptop. I tried everything I could, even asked ChatGPT many times, but nothing worked. I’m hoping someone here can finally help me.Problem:No bluetooth adapters are shown in the blueman and bluetoothctl. When i run bluetoothctl and then scan on, it shows "No default controller available"I tried:Reinstalled all Bluetooth packages:bluetooth,bluez,blueman,rfkill, etc.Checkedrfkill list(Bluetooth isnot blocked)Tried restarting the Bluetooth service withsystemctl restart bluetoothRanlspci | grep -i bluetoothand got nothingRanlsusb– I’m not even sure if my Bluetooth device is listedI also trieddmesg | grep -i bluetooth– no clear errorsPlease helpWhat else can I try?Is there a specific driver I need to install based on the chipset?I saw that my bluetooth driver is of Mediatek through windows and the mediatek firmware is also installed by default.the version of kali i am using: 6.16.8+kali-amd64Thank you so much in advance 🙏
Supported bluetooth devices list with good range? Supported bluetooth devices list with good range?u/succulentandcacti•4 mo. agoSupported bluetooth devices list with good range?Question - Kali GeneralHi, looking for recommendations for bluetooth pentesting, possibly by also adding an external antenna to provide greater range to whatever devices are supported.Thanks in advance
Have anyone used kali pi-tail on the rpi zero 2w? Have anyone used kali pi-tail on the rpi zero 2w?u/Grim_master911•4 mo. agoHave anyone used kali pi-tail on the rpi zero 2w?Question - Kali GeneralAnyone knows how can i connect the raspi to my phone while the monitor mode is enabled?I opened a hotspot for the raspi to connect to and then i ran sudo wifite then the disconnected from the hotspot to enable the monitor mode.Any solution for that?
Nvidia 50 Series Support Nvidia 50 Series Supportu/Keeblerelf569•4 mo. agoNvidia 50 Series SupportSetupHello, got a question on how to install Nvidia proprietary drivers and CUDA for a 5070ti on kali. I understand that the "official" support says to use apt to install the drivers, but unfortunately even 8 months after release, there is no suitable drive with the apt package managerhttps://www.kali.org/docs/general-use/install-nvidia-drivers-on-kali-linux/. On the bottom of the page, there is a way to install via Nvidia's installer. I did this and blacklisted nouveau and updated initramfs, but after a reboot it does not load xfce GUI and sends me to a cli. There has to be a working way? This is the only gpu i own and I would like to use hashcat. Any help is appreciated!
How to fix this issue when opening Nethunter terminal. How to fix this issue when opening Nethunter terminal.u/nishantshah977•4 mo. agoHow to fix this issue when opening Nethunter terminal.Question - Kali NetHunter
Cursor invisible after updates Cursor invisible after updatesu/habalaski•4 mo. agoCursor invisible after updatesQuestion - Kali GeneralI am running kali using VMware on my windows host. Everything has been working great. However, yesterday I ran my weakly updates and I notice that the cursor of my mouse is invisible after the updates. I reverted the machine to my snapshot of last week and tried updating again, but the problem remains. Did anyone stumble on this problem as well? And does anyone know how to fix it?Edit: you can fix it by setting the compatibility settings of the vm to VMware 17.x or higher.
Xfce corrupted plugin Xfce corrupted pluginu/Pohodovej_Rybar•4 mo. agoXfce corrupted pluginQuestion - Kali General
kali Nethunter on galaxy tablet kali Nethunter on galaxy tabletu/Chrissysux•4 mo. agokali Nethunter on galaxy tabletQuestion - Kali GeneralAny Samsung Galaxy tablets besides the s4 run Nethunter successfully?
pkexec x-terminal-emulator (Kali Linux UTM) error pkexec x-terminal-emulator (Kali Linux UTM) erroru/yarkhan02•4 mo. agopkexec x-terminal-emulator (Kali Linux UTM) errorQuestion - Kali ARMI was normally using my kali linux. my one terminal was open in which I was running wasp zap when I try to open another terminal or sub terminal I was getting this error. I shut down the machine and when I restart It my kali linux no showing black screen. how can I resolve this error even grub is not even opening.this is the error```Failed to execute command "pkexec x-terminal-emulator"Failed to execute child process "pkexec" (No such file or directory)```it would be a big help. anyone know how to resolve this. thanks!
your wayland compositor does not support required protocol wlr-layer-shell your wayland compositor does not support required protocol wlr-layer-shellu/Able-Row-6426•4 mo. agoyour wayland compositor does not support required protocol wlr-layer-shellQuestion - Kali Generalhello i tried to open up kali linux (WSL 2 GUI). When i paste my ip to remote desktop connection, log in i first have black screen. then this information pops up "your wayland compositor does not support required protocol wlr-layer-shell" and then xcfe4 opens up and i have only taskbar from kali going through middle of the screen. i can share ss if it helps.
Basic Questions Megathread Basic Questions Megathreadu/AutoModerator•5 mo. agoBasic Questions MegathreadMegathreadHere, users who are new to Kali Linux can ask basic questions about it and its functionality and receive assistance regarding potential issues they are facing. Please remember to follow the subreddit rules when asking your questions.Before posting, make sure you have reviewedKali's Documentation, as the answer may be well-documented. Additionally, please refer to the following articles to ensure you ask proper and high-quality questions:How do I ask a good questionHow to ask questions the smart wayThe XY problemDon't ask to askPlease remember that while AI/LLM models like ChatGPT can be useful, they are not a substitute for proper troubleshooting. When seeking assistance, it's important to refer to the documentation of the tool, program, or OS you're using and to use your preferred search engine for further research.This megathread will be posted monthly.
Live Showcase on Kali Nethunter Live Showcase on Kali Nethunteru/Offsec_Community•5 mo. agoLive Showcase on Kali NethunterDiscussionLive Showcase on Kali Nethunterr/offensive_security•5 mo. agoLive Showcase on Kali NethunterReady to unleash Kali NetHunter?Join us for #OffSecLive: Kali NetHunter Showcase – hosted byu/yesimxev, Kali NetHunter Developer and penetration tester!Topic:Offensive Attacks with Mobile Phones and SmartwatchesLive attack showcaseInteractive Q&A with the expertFrom real-world exploits to advanced features, see how NetHunter turns everyday devices into pocket-sized hacking powerhouses.Perfect for pentesters, bug bounty hunters, and Kali enthusiasts looking to level up their toolkit.Friday, October 3, 2025, at 11:00 AM ETCatch us LIVE onYoutube:https://www.youtube.com/live/4pfuMG0u3q0Twitch:https://www.twitch.tv/offsecofficialMake sure to add it in your calendar and set up that alarm,u/everyone!Don't miss it!4upvotes·1comment
Windows 11/Kali dual boot with Secure Boot enabled… Windows 11/Kali dual boot with Secure Boot enabled…u/69dilbert•5 mo. agoWindows 11/Kali dual boot with Secure Boot enabled…Question - Kali GeneralHas anyone had any success enabling SecureBoot with Kali by creating their own certificate and key and signing the kernel and using shimx64.efi to chain load grubx64.efi? Also does anybody know if the Kali development team envision supporting Secure Boot out of the box in the future?
term problem term problem[deleted]•5 mo. agoterm problemQuestion - Kali General
Kali OS through a Whonix-Gateway for Tor support. Kali OS through a Whonix-Gateway for Tor support.u/_none_so_vile_•5 mo. agoKali OS through a Whonix-Gateway for Tor support.Question - Kali Generaldoes having all my traffic routed through the gateway keep me "safe" from adversaries catching wind of my IP address? or do i need another layer?host os is luks encrypted debian flavor.
Driver RTX serie 5000 Driver RTX serie 5000u/Alessins23•5 mo. agoDriver RTX serie 5000Question - Kali GeneralHow can I install the drivers for an RTX 5070? I try to version nvidia 570.x.x (and above) but only get the following error:ERROR: Unable to find the kernel source tree for the current ly running kerne 1. Plcase make surc you haue installed the kerne I source files for your kernel and that they are proper ly conf igured; on Red Hat Linux systens, for example, be sure you hauc the kerne l-source or kerne I RPM installed. If you know the correct kernel source files are installed, you may spec i fy the kerne I source path with the -kernelsmod | grep nvidia
Kali Linux 2025.3 Release (Vagrant & Nexmon) Kali Linux 2025.3 Release (Vagrant & Nexmon)u/Arszilla•5 mo. agoKali Linux 2025.3 Release (Vagrant & Nexmon)Release Noteshttps://www.kali.org/blog/kali-linux-2025-3-release/
Kali Linux 2025.2 Screen Goes Black and Logs Me Out After Heavy Browsing. Is My PC Too Old? Kali Linux 2025.2 Screen Goes Black and Logs Me Out After Heavy Browsing. Is My PC Too Old?u/rudro_sarkar•5 mo. agoKali Linux 2025.2 Screen Goes Black and Logs Me Out After Heavy Browsing. Is My PC Too Old?Question - Kali GeneralHi everyone,I’ve been facing an issue with my Kali Linux 2025.2. Every time I browse something heavy (like videos or complex websites), the screen goes black for about a second, then it asks me to log in again. When I log back in, it feels like the system just restarted, every session I had gets killed.Here are my system specs: (It's a potato pc)Processor: Intel Core 2 DuoRAM: 4GBGraphics: Integrated GraphicsMotherboard: Older BIOS-based motherboardIs my system just too old to handle Kali Linux, or is this a bug related to the OS or drivers? I’m not sure if it’s a hardware limitation or something that can be fixed with settings.Has anyone experienced this, or does anyone have suggestions for troubleshooting? I’ve already tried a few basic things like restarting several times and reinstalling the OS.Thanks in advance for your help!
Kali Linux problem without knowing what's happening Kali Linux problem without knowing what's happeningu/Majestic-Main9723•5 mo. agoKali Linux problem without knowing what's happeningQuestion - Kali GeneralFriends, I need help. I've had a problem with Kali Linux for months, and it's something that has never happened to me in the short time I've been using it, approximately 4 years, and it seems strange to me.Every time I try to do "apt full-upgrade" it works fine but in the end it says "error: unmet dependencies. Try <<apt --fix-broken install>> without package", The problem is that when I use that command it throws me another one and when I use the other one it tells me that I need to approve the first one .But in the end I never find a solution, I always get that error. I also recently tried to use osingram just to approve that tool and it throws an error for not having a dependency and when I try to install it it throws the same thing.
OnePlus 7 pro and Nethunter [correct firmware] OnePlus 7 pro and Nethunter [correct firmware]u/a3579545•5 mo. agoOnePlus 7 pro and Nethunter [correct firmware]Question - Kali NetHunterI have been searching and applying different versions through msmdownloader. Haven't bricked it yet. Lol. But I have seen now all the downloads for OOS10 and 11 but I just dont know which ones I download? I have the ROM for AA26 but I can't find the matching payload.bin to get the boot.IMG for rooting. I've seen a lot of outdates garbage and stuff that doesn't work.I need to know a source for the correct version of msm to get and then onto the oneplus website to get the payload.bin to get boot.IMG to root??I'm close, but not winning!!
Suggestion for internal Wi-Fi card that supports monitor mode and packet injection. Suggestion for internal Wi-Fi card that supports monitor mode and packet injection.u/AdhesivenessPlus317•5 mo. agoSuggestion for internal Wi-Fi card that supports monitor mode and packet injection.SetupHello all! Hope you are doing great! I would like suggestions for an internal Wi-Fi card for my laptop, which should support monitor mode and packet injection. I plan on upgrading from my current Wi-Fi card (MediaTek Wi-Fi 6 MT7921 Wireless LAN Card) to a new one that supports monitor mode and packet injection. I have anASUS TUF A15 FA506QMwith anM.2 2230 PCIe slotfor the Wi-Fi card (currently MediaTek MT7921). Planning to runLinuxand need a card that supportsmonitor mode and packet injection. I don't prefer the external modules because they are ugly, and feel synthetic and like some kind of implant, and not original, because, the feeling that the laptop doesn't natively support these features, unless an external device is utilized, feels bad. Also, it is a bit difficult to carry such devices around, and I cannot even place my laptop in the bag with that plugged in. So, please suggest suitable Wi-Fi cards for my laptop. Thank you!
Kali Not Appearing in Boot Menu Kali Not Appearing in Boot Menuu/Nuke_Messiah•5 mo. agoKali Not Appearing in Boot MenuSetupWhat's up guys, hoping you can help me out:After about a year of stable use, Kali has disappeared from the boot menu options on my rig. I used GParted from a Fedora installation on a second SSD, and the partitions on my Kali SSD appear to be fine. Secure Boot is off, and I've tried different UEFI/Legacy configurations to no avail.I think it may be related to operations I was doing on a third SSD, where I had a broken Windows 11 installation I was trying to repair. I've reinstalled Windows on that SSD, and I'm wondering if Windows didn't do something to modify the boot partition on the Kali SSD, but I'm not sure...Any input is appreciated - thanks for your time.
My first cyberdeck powered by raspberry pi 5 with kali My first cyberdeck powered by raspberry pi 5 with kaliu/Connect_Werewolf_232•5 mo. agoMy first cyberdeck powered by raspberry pi 5 with kaliDiscussionMy first one!r/cyberDeck•5 mo. agoMy first one!579upvotes·29comments
/var/log/boot.log: what does the blue [ ^M^M ] after every line mean? /var/log/boot.log: what does the blue [ ^M^M ] after every line mean?u/opheey•5 mo. ago/var/log/boot.log: what does the blue [ ^M^M ] after every line mean?Question - Kali General
Looking for a handheld like the blackberry phones Looking for a handheld like the blackberry phonesu/Sea_Analyst9617•5 mo. agoLooking for a handheld like the blackberry phonesQuestion - Kali NetHunterIs hackberry best option or is there something smaller that can run Kali with physical keyboard?
I have installed kali on my 32 gigs pendrive full persistent I have installed kali on my 32 gigs pendrive full persistentu/SHIKIGAMI_EXPERT•5 mo. agoI have installed kali on my 32 gigs pendrive full persistentQuestion - Kali GeneralSo is their any possible way i can use that kali linux on my pendrive in my phone , bcz kali nethunter is too heavy for my phone .
Anyone running on qualcom sm7225 Anyone running on qualcom sm7225u/Frayedknot64•5 mo. agoAnyone running on qualcom sm7225Question - Kali ARMhttps://phonesdata.com/en/chipset/qualcomm/sm7225-snapdragon-750g-5g-(8-nm)/
Kali apt keeps redirecting to dead mirror (mirrors.jevincanders.net) — how do I force a healthy one? Kali apt keeps redirecting to dead mirror (mirrors.jevincanders.net) — how do I force a healthy one?u/lildripjm14•5 mo. agoKali apt keeps redirecting to dead mirror (mirrors.jevincanders.net) — how do I force a healthy one?Question - Kali General
OnePlus 7t Pro Nethunter OnePlus 7t Pro Nethunteru/Simple-Apartment-732•5 mo. agoOnePlus 7t Pro NethunterQuestion - Kali ARMHello, I want to install Nethunter on my OnePlus 7t Pro running LineageOS, but the officialKali.orgwebsite states that it only works on Android 11. Does anyone know which FOSS custom ROM I can use?
Black screen RPi 2b (touch screen) Black screen RPi 2b (touch screen)u/Blackrain149•5 mo. agoBlack screen RPi 2b (touch screen)SetupSo I’m very new to this so apologise if it’s been answered multiple times and also for the hardware I’m using!So, I’ve acquired a pre-built RPi 2b prebuilt with a touch screen and already programmed with an RPiOS, I’ve disassembled it so it’s bare screen and Pi (future cyberdeck), followed all the steps to install Kali Linux, SD card wrote well, screen wiring all fine, added power and it’s done the ‘matrix bit’, then a handful of lines after the network section (not connected to anything) it’s black screened with a ‘_’ for a few seconds then just stayed black. No commands to login worked, attempted to run it without the screen and straight HDMI and that did the exact same thing.Any suggestions?
Torrent tracker down? Torrent tracker down?u/CharacterLimitHasBee•5 mo. agoTorrent tracker down?Question - Kali GeneralTrying to download the 'everything' torrent. Not connecting to any seeders and thehttp://tracker.kali.org:6969/announcetracker shows "not working".Any way to confirm this is an issue on their end and/or another source for this file?
Installation Problem on Intel Macbook Air Installation Problem on Intel Macbook Airu/Gravitar64•5 mo. agoInstallation Problem on Intel Macbook AirQuestion - Kali GeneralI started an installation with a fresh Kali Linux ISO usb-stick on a Macbook Air (Intel® Core™ i5-3427U, 64-bit). After choose a free 60GB Space for partition (guided choose biggest free space) the software installation stopped with an installation error.After many tries I tried after this error (ESC to go to the installation tree) the installation of grub and switched (with ESC) to the software installation. Now the software installation works fine!???!?!??!An similar problem report was 4 years old. Is it really true, that this problem isn't fixed today?
Basic Questions Megathread Basic Questions Megathreadu/AutoModerator•6 mo. agoBasic Questions MegathreadMegathreadHere, users who are new to Kali Linux can ask basic questions about it and its functionality and receive assistance regarding potential issues they are facing. Please remember to follow the subreddit rules when asking your questions.Before posting, make sure you have reviewedKali's Documentation, as the answer may be well-documented. Additionally, please refer to the following articles to ensure you ask proper and high-quality questions:How do I ask a good questionHow to ask questions the smart wayThe XY problemDon't ask to askPlease remember that while AI/LLM models like ChatGPT can be useful, they are not a substitute for proper troubleshooting. When seeking assistance, it's important to refer to the documentation of the tool, program, or OS you're using and to use your preferred search engine for further research.This megathread will be posted monthly.
Best phone for Kali NetHunter Best phone for Kali NetHunteru/Binx8d6•6 mo. agoBest phone for Kali NetHunterQuestion - Kali GeneralTo start with I’ve checked the official documentation, a few previous Reddit posts and the latest “Best phones for Kali NetHunter! (2025)” websites. The answer seems vague at best. From devices being outdated to devices lacking the ability for certain features. So the best way to figure the question out is ask the people who actually have used these devices.With that being said… what device do you run Kali NetHunter on? Does it lack features? Is it still supported? Give your experience so I and others can reference this post and find “The best phone for Kali NetHunter”.
Problem Problemu/wimpy_kid158•6 mo. agoProblemQuestion - Kali NetHunter
Kali Desktop - without Kali guts Kali Desktop - without Kali gutsu/Master-Perception-69•6 mo. agoKali Desktop - without Kali gutsQuestion - Kali GeneralKali and its tuned XFCE Desktop experience has been my favorite desktop in a long time. But I want to use it as my daily driver, and I don't want all the security/testing + rolling release in something I'm using for normal work.Any thoughts on the best way to get the Kali Experience on vanilla debian or ubuntu?As far as packages, I think I can yank out all the security things I don't use regularly. But then I need to get repos connected with normal day-to-day packages.
Nethunter Terminal not working even though chroot works fine Nethunter Terminal not working even though chroot works fineu/Warm_Formal_8845•6 mo. agoNethunter Terminal not working even though chroot works fineQuestion - Kali NetHunterHello,for the last 4 day I tried to fully setup nethunter on my pixel 7. For this I rooted the Phone with magisk and installed the custom Kali Kernel. This all worked fine and I continued by installing nethunter from the nethunter store and than chroot via the chroot installer (only minimal worked for some reason) and thats where the problems started. The nethunter terminal doesnt want to work and always displays:data/data/com.offsec.nhterm/files/usr/bin/kali: line 35: -c: command not found  [Process completed (code 127) - press EnterI looked at the line in the file:$SU2/system/bin/chroot/data/local/nhsystem/kalifsand figured it had something to do with su and chroot using it so I tried to install chroot via magisk, install busybox via magisk tried to manually fix stuff with command I found online but nothing works. So if you have any solutions I would be gratefull(I will make a guide for the entire process when I get it working).
I needed a longer usb-c to multi-port dongle cable for NetHunter. Perhaps others will find this helpful! :-) I needed a longer usb-c to multi-port dongle cable for NetHunter. Perhaps others will find this helpful! :-)u/needmorejoules•6 mo. agoI needed a longer usb-c to multi-port dongle cable for NetHunter. Perhaps others will find this helpful! :-)Discussion
Undercover mode problem!! Undercover mode problem!!u/Exact_Expert_6361•6 mo. agoUndercover mode problem!!Question - Kali GeneralI can not revert to the original state after I enabled kali linux undercover mode . It changes only the terminal and nothing else. I have tried reinstalling xfce and undercover mode but nothing worked. Does anyone knows how to fix this.
Can't apt update on Nethunter Can't apt update on Nethunteru/ChaoticDestructive•6 mo. agoCan't apt update on NethunterQuestion - Kali GeneralHello everyone, I recently got nethunter on an old phone, and I've been struggling with getting it to apt-get update for several days now.The error I receive is:Err:1http://http.kali.org/kalikali-rolling InReleaseTemporary failure resolving 'http.kali.org'Running the command with the flag-oDebug::pkgAcquire::Worker=1gives the same result, just formatted differently. I have tried the following:- Run the command through a 5g connection to ensure it is not a DNS issue- Copied the apt sources.list from my WSL and VM- Changed the http:// to https://- Tried to CURL the url (onhttp://http.kali.org/kaliit gives an error 301, but changing it tohttp://http.kali.org/kali/, so with a trailing /, it works fine)- Add the trailing / to the sources.list url (APT still tries to install fromhttp.kali.org/kali, without the trailing /)- Execute the commands given herehttps://www.kali.org/docs/general-use/kali-linux-sources-list-repositoriesto set to rolling updateAt this point, I am at a loss, google is coming up with outdated bug solutions or commands that don't work.The phone is a Oneplus2, running Lineage 16.0, with version 2024.4 of Nethunter.Does anyone know how to solve the error, or barring that, a workaround to update the packages?
Dual booting Dual bootingu/UnitedEggs•6 mo. agoDual bootingQuestion - Kali GeneralI’m not super new to Linux or Kali, but I certainly wouldn’t consider myself an “advanced user” either. I see a lot of conflicting information about dual booting; I have mine configured so that Kali has its own entire dedicated physical hard drive, and have ensured that I’m not auto-mounting the other drives in my system to Kali. Is there something I’m missing here? The primary thing I see people say is that it’s a potential security risk, as is every other distribution when misconfigured, or that you’ll potentially nuke your windows installation, which would be tough with my current setup, I would think.
Can't access CUPS localhost website administration panel. Can't access CUPS localhost website administration panel.u/Michael679089•6 mo. agoCan't access CUPS localhost website administration panel.Question - Kali General
Why is this Kali host sending SYN packets to local IPs? Why is this Kali host sending SYN packets to local IPs?u/Botany_Dave•6 mo. agoWhy is this Kali host sending SYN packets to local IPs?Question - Kali GeneralI have a recently installed instance of Kali (my first) running Wireshark. I'm only looking at traffic to/from its IP address. Periodically, the Kali host will ARP for a local IP, receive a response, and send a SYN packet, only to receive a destination unreachable from the AP because it's configured to disallow communications between hosts. I see no traffic prior to the ARP that would explain why the Kali host has a need to establish communications with any device on the network. The hosts it is reaching out to are not providing network services (DHCP, etc.), they are just other hosts on the network.This behavior has been present since I installed the OS a few months back. I'm keeping it up to date with patches.I'd like to understand why this traffic is being generated.
Raspberry pi Kali to boot on NVME Raspberry pi Kali to boot on NVMEu/CovertlyOblivious•6 mo. agoRaspberry pi Kali to boot on NVMEQuestion - Kali ARMI'm running a Hackberry pi CM5 and I'm trying to get the raspberry pi version of Kali to boot off of an NVME drive rather than the SD card. I can run off of the SD card with no problems. Now for the NVME,  I've updated the config file to recognize the PCIe, I've formatted and partitioned the NVME drive, verified that I can read and write to it, copied the SD card to the NVME drive using rpi-clone, and updated the bootloader to look at the NVME drive first.When I reboot without the card... nothing. The screen has power, but nothing boots. So I power off, reinsert the card and boot up and everything works fine. I even tried to use raspi-config to select booting from NVME and the option isn't even there. Is there something I'm missing? I've done this same thing with other raspberry pi OS's and it was easy. For some reason, I'm really struggling with Kali on this one.If it's designed to only run off of an SD card, is that something I can modify on my own? I would need some guidance on that one. I'm not afraid to mess things up and learn, I'm just not sure where to begin here.Any help is appreciated!
Console view Console viewu/fshklr•6 mo. agoConsole viewQuestion - Kali General
How do I connect to a wireless display on Kali/Debian like WIN+K on Windows? How do I connect to a wireless display on Kali/Debian like WIN+K on Windows?u/Embarrassed_Wrap_150•6 mo. agoHow do I connect to a wireless display on Kali/Debian like WIN+K on Windows?Question - Kali GeneralHey, so on Windows when I press WIN + K it shows wireless displays like my TV and I can just click on it to connect and mirror my screen.I’m on Kali Linux now and I’m trying to figure out how to do the same thing. I open the wireless display input on my TV, like I usually do, but I have no idea how to connect to it from Linux.I think it uses Bluetooth, but I’m not sure. Doesn’t seem like normal Wi-Fi casting. The TV shows up as a wireless display in Windows but not as a regular Bluetooth device in Linux.Is there any way to do this on Linux? I’ve seen stuff like miraclecast but it’s kind of a pain and I’m not even sure it supports my hardware. Just wondering if anyone’s figured out a simple way to do this.Thanks.
How I Installed Kali Linux on an External SSD (Full Guide – Portable Bootable Kali Setup) How I Installed Kali Linux on an External SSD (Full Guide – Portable Bootable Kali Setup)u/theiskhamdamov•6 mo. agoHow I Installed Kali Linux on an External SSD (Full Guide – Portable Bootable Kali Setup)Question - Kali GeneralHello everyone,I recently installed Kali Linux directly onto anexternal SSDand made it fullyportable. Now I can boot into Kali on any compatible PC via USB. I used a compact USB 3.0 SSD enclosure, which essentially turns it into a high-speed bootable flash drive. Below is theclean, step-by-step processI followed.Step 1: Download the Kali Linux ISOthe official installer ISO file from Kali's website:Download:Kali Linux ISONote: I used theInstaller ISO, not the "Live" version.Step 2: Create a Bootable USB InstallerUseBalena Etcher(as recommended by Kali's official documentation) to flash the Kali Installer ISO to a USB drive (at least 8–16 GB).Download:Balena EtcherNo need to manually select filesystem or partition scheme – Etcher handles it for you.Step 3: Prepare the External SSDConnect your external SSD to your PC using a USB 3.0 enclosure.Youdo not need to manually format or partitionthe drive beforehand — Kali's installer will take care of it during the installation process.Step 4: Install Kali Linux to the SSDBoot your computer from the Kali USB installer you created.Begin the Kali installation process.When prompted to choose the installation target,select your external SSD(be careful not to overwrite your internal drive).Proceed with the installation as normal.Step 5: Make the SSD Universally BootableAfter installation is complete, to ensure the external SSD is bootable onany UEFI-supported machine, run the following command in a terminal inside Kali:sudo grub-install --removable --recheck --efi-directory=/boot/efiThis installs GRUB in a removable mode, which helps the SSD behave like a universal bootable device.Step 6: Boot Kali from the External SSDTo boot into Kali from another system:Plug in your external SSD.At system startup, press the boot menu key (e.g., F12, F9, ESC).Select your external SSD from the list.Kali should boot normally with full persistence and functionality.SummaryThis setup is perfect for:Portable penetration testing environmentsSecure development on the goAvoiding dual-boot setupsLet me know if you have questions or suggestions for improvement. I'd be happy to help.
NetHunter Terminal not working – android-su error & system write issues after full ARM64 install NetHunter Terminal not working – android-su error & system write issues after full ARM64 installu/Dualcore3_1•6 mo. agoNetHunter Terminal not working – android-su error & system write issues after full ARM64 installQuestion - Kali NetHunter
How is Kali is used by many hackers but isn't considered a "secure/safe" OS? How does those "hackers" secure themselves? How is Kali is used by many hackers but isn't considered a "secure/safe" OS? How does those "hackers" secure themselves?u/junglewhite•6 mo. agoHow is Kali is used by many hackers but isn't considered a "secure/safe" OS? How does those "hackers" secure themselves?Question - Kali GeneralThis is probably a broad question but I'd really appreciate anyone to help and/or share useful info🙏
Basic Questions Megathread Basic Questions Megathreadu/AutoModerator•7 mo. agoBasic Questions MegathreadMegathreadHere, users who are new to Kali Linux can ask basic questions about it and its functionality and receive assistance regarding potential issues they are facing. Please remember to follow the subreddit rules when asking your questions.Before posting, make sure you have reviewedKali's Documentation, as the answer may be well-documented. Additionally, please refer to the following articles to ensure you ask proper and high-quality questions:How do I ask a good questionHow to ask questions the smart wayThe XY problemDon't ask to askPlease remember that while AI/LLM models like ChatGPT can be useful, they are not a substitute for proper troubleshooting. When seeking assistance, it's important to refer to the documentation of the tool, program, or OS you're using and to use your preferred search engine for further research.This megathread will be posted monthly.
How do I make a welcoming UI for myself? How do I make a welcoming UI for myself?u/XSpaartanX•7 mo. agoHow do I make a welcoming UI for myself?Question - Kali GeneralMaybe the question is too basic for this sub but I am a Cyber security student, interested in Pentesting. Till now I was running Kali on  virtual box because I had heard that dual booting can cause issues with the windows.I did manage to run dual boot on my laptop. My goal is to start using Kali more than Windows and eventually do a complete switch. The problem is that coming from windows, Kali feels very bland. Can anyone suggest me some fun gimmicks, functionalities or any general tips to make using Kali feel less of a hurdle and actually fun.
Install Nethunter On Custom ROM Install Nethunter On Custom ROMu/Suspicious_Cry6547•7 mo. agoInstall Nethunter On Custom ROMQuestion - Kali NetHunterI have a One+ 6T running LOS and LOS Recovery, seeing as there are no official builds for this version of LOS does anyone have any suggestions on installing Nethunter on this device?I did root the device with Magisk and have Tmux and Tmux API on the device.Would installing the generic ARM64 be sufficient? Or would i need a specific kernel as well?Thank you for your time.
🆘 Bluetooth not working anymore on Kali Linux or Rocky Linux 🆘 Bluetooth not working anymore on Kali Linux or Rocky Linuxu/Puzzleheaded_Farm215•7 mo. ago🆘 Bluetooth not working anymore on Kali Linux or Rocky LinuxQuestion - Kali General🆘 Bluetooth not working anymore on Kali Linux or Rocky LinuxHi everyone,I've been struggling for weeks with a Bluetooth issue. I tried everything I could, even asked ChatGPT many times, but nothing worked. I’m hoping someone here can finally help me.🙁 My problem:I want to connect my Bluetooth headphones, whichused to work finebefore. Now they don’t connect at all. I’ve tried on bothKali LinuxandRocky Linux, and Bluetooth doesn’t work on either.🔍 What I tried:Reinstalled all Bluetooth packages:bluetooth,bluez,blueman,rfkill, etc.Checkedrfkill list(Bluetooth isnot blocked)Tried restarting the Bluetooth service withsystemctl restart bluetooth, but I get:javascriptCopiaModificaConditionPathIsDirectory=/sys/class/bluetooth was not met Active: inactive (dead)Ranlspci | grep -i bluetoothand got nothingRanlsusb– I’m not even sure if my Bluetooth device is listedI also trieddmesg | grep -i bluetooth– no clear errors💡 Extra info:This is not a dual-boot. It’s a Linux-only system.It workedbeforeon Kali, so I know the hardware is supported.I suspect it might be adriver issueor the device isn’t being detected at all.The Bluetooth adapter might be USB-based, but I’m not 100% sure.🙏 Please helpWhat else can I try?How can I force Linux to detect my Bluetooth device?Is there a specific driver I need to install based on the chipset?Thank you so much in advance 🙏
NetHunter. Any BT command reboots phone causing kernel panic NetHunter. Any BT command reboots phone causing kernel panicu/Some_Motor_1922•7 mo. agoNetHunter. Any BT command reboots phone causing kernel panicQuestion - Kali NetHunterI have S20 Ultra, US Snapdragon version, rooted. Based on bcm4375 BT/WiFi chipset, Linux kernel version: 4.19.113. Monitor mode/injections (nexmon) work fine, but any HCI Bluetooth command just crashes my phone, using terminal, through NetHunter App, doesn't matter. Dmesg indicates at bt_sock_create function in net/bluetooth/af_bluetooth.c After executing BT command kernel goes to panic immediately, dmesg, logcat stop also. So I know only that sometging goes wrong at bt_sock_create. I even tried variant with disabled internal bluetooth, but nothing changed
Installation with LVM/LUKS & BTRFS - Cannot find grub? Installation with LVM/LUKS & BTRFS - Cannot find grub?u/WarLord_GR•7 mo. agoInstallation with LVM/LUKS & BTRFS - Cannot find grub?Question - Kali GeneralSo I installed Kali linux from a Live USB following thisguide.The only difference is that I also added BTRFS by simply changing the fs of the/and/hometo BTRFS following theguide2.The thing is now that when the installation finished and proceed with reboot I get default non kali grub showing only two entries: windows boot manager and my nvme disk. Clicking any of these returns to the same page!What am I missing here? What I observed is that in thisguideI didn't see the step to install grub. So I did the installation again and manually went to the Grub step and performed it ( i guess successfully) but still I'm stuck in the same screen.
WSL2 - XFCE Notify Daemon Error WSL2 - XFCE Notify Daemon Erroru/Ok_Acanthisitta_995•7 mo. agoWSL2 - XFCE Notify Daemon ErrorQuestion - Kali GeneralHowdy Friends!I was working in Kali in WSL2 and did an update, then after restarting it I received an Error:"Unable to start notification daemon - Your Wayland compositor does not support required protocol wlr-layer-shell"I have attempted to uninstall/reinstall this in WSL2, and I have crawled multiple forums and can't find anything solid on this. Has anyone else seen this before?
Why is the patched sudo version for CVE-2025-32463 still not available in Kali Rolling? Why is the patched sudo version for CVE-2025-32463 still not available in Kali Rolling?u/Few-Alternative-7580•7 mo. agoWhy is the patched sudo version for CVE-2025-32463 still not available in Kali Rolling?Question - Kali GeneralHi everyone,I'm currently using Kali Linux with the officialkali-rollingrepository (http://http.kali.org/kali) and have noticed that the latest available version ofsudois:sudo:   Installed: 1.9.16p2-3   Candidate: 1.9.16p2-3   Version table:  *** 1.9.16p2-3 500         500 http://http.kali.org/kali kali-rolling/main amd64 Packages         100 /var/lib/dpkg/statusAccording to theofficial sudo advisory, the vulnerabilityCVE-2025-32463affects versionsfrom 1.9.14 up to (but not including) 1.9.17p1. The advisory clearly states that the fixed version is1.9.17p1.Since1.9.16p2is still within the affected range, this means Kali users are still on a vulnerable version, even though the issue is public and a patch exists upstream.Does anyone know why the patched version hasn't been pushed to Kali's rolling repo yet?Is there an ETA or workaround recommended in the meantime?Thanks in advance :)
Vibe Hacking with Nmap using NetHunter Vibe Hacking with Nmap using NetHunteru/barakadua131•7 mo. agoVibe Hacking with Nmap using NetHunterQuestion - Kali NetHunter
Problems with rejnstalling Kali linux pakagelibstdc++-arm-none-eabi-dev= 15:14.2.rel1-1+29 . Apt --fix-broken install can't update srandard c library...((( Problems with rejnstalling Kali linux pakagelibstdc++-arm-none-eabi-dev= 15:14.2.rel1-1+29 . Apt --fix-broken install can't update srandard c library...(((u/abuzekau•7 mo. agoProblems with rejnstalling Kali linux pakagelibstdc++-arm-none-eabi-dev= 15:14.2.rel1-1+29 . Apt --fix-broken install can't update srandard c library...(((Question - Kali NetHunter
SSD External always broken but fine when connect to windows or android SSD External always broken but fine when connect to windows or android[deleted]•8 mo. agoSSD External always broken but fine when connect to windows or androidQuestion - Kali General
why does kali linux run way better on virtualbox than vmware? why does kali linux run way better on virtualbox than vmware?u/Omar_2004•8 mo. agowhy does kali linux run way better on virtualbox than vmware?Question - Kali Generali tried both and by far virtualbox feels way smoother. i tried giving vmware more resources but still runs horribly. i personally prefer vmware but i switched to virtualbox which isnt a big deal but im still wondering why it runs better on vbox
Basic Questions Megathread Basic Questions Megathreadu/AutoModerator•8 mo. agoBasic Questions MegathreadMegathreadHere, users who are new to Kali Linux can ask basic questions about it and its functionality and receive assistance regarding potential issues they are facing. Please remember to follow the subreddit rules when asking your questions.Before posting, make sure you have reviewedKali's Documentation, as the answer may be well-documented. Additionally, please refer to the following articles to ensure you ask proper and high-quality questions:How do I ask a good questionHow to ask questions the smart wayThe XY problemDon't ask to askPlease remember that while AI/LLM models like ChatGPT can be useful, they are not a substitute for proper troubleshooting. When seeking assistance, it's important to refer to the documentation of the tool, program, or OS you're using and to use your preferred search engine for further research.This megathread will be posted monthly.
Top Bar XFCE icon/spacing organization Top Bar XFCE icon/spacing organizationu/g00dhum0r•8 mo. agoTop Bar XFCE icon/spacing organizationQuestion - Kali General
Kali linux VM and macchanger. Kali linux VM and macchanger.u/TECFO•8 mo. agoKali linux VM and macchanger.Question - Kali GeneralIt has been 2 weeks already. I'm learning how to use Kali linux and i've reached macchanger. It was easy to use and understand.The problems comes from changing the mac address now.I did everything i could to try to connect the vm to internet after changing the mac but it didn't work.Yes, i did shut down the NetworkManager service.Yes, after that i shut down eth0 before randomizing the mac.Then i restarted both eth0 and the NetworkManager.Yet it still didn't work as it doesn’t even ping either 8.8.8.8 or even my own wifi.It only works back when put back the permanent Mac address.What should i do?
Help with Intel Wi-Fi 6 AX201 on Bare Metal Kali Install (Dell Latitude 7320, Kali 2025.2) Help with Intel Wi-Fi 6 AX201 on Bare Metal Kali Install (Dell Latitude 7320, Kali 2025.2)u/Southern-Log•8 mo. agoHelp with Intel Wi-Fi 6 AX201 on Bare Metal Kali Install (Dell Latitude 7320, Kali 2025.2)Question - Kali GeneralPLease, if you have dealt with something like this before, help with getting Wi-Fi working on a bare metal Kali Linux install.System details:Dell Latitude 7320 LaptopIntel Core i7-1185G7, 16GB RAM, 512GB SSDKali Linux 2025.2 (bare metal install, not a VM)Built-in Wi-Fi: Intel Wi-Fi 6 AX201Kali won't recognizing the AX201 adapter. The GUI does not list Wi-Fi at all, only "wired" and "vpn" It's like the device doesn't exist. I’ve run system updates and tried installing drivers, but nothing has worked so far.What I’ve tried:Ran: sudo apt-get update   sudo apt-get -yf install   sudo apt-get dist-upgrade   sudo apt-get install firmware-iwlwifiRebooted multiple times after updatesTried some scripts to update firmware or reload drivers, but they didn’t seem to make any visible changesCheckedthis forum post, but I’m hesitant to start manually modifying files without fully understanding the risksWhat I’m wondering:Is this a driver issue or something deeper with the install itself?Is there a recommended way to verify that the install is detecting hardware properly?Can the AX201 work reliably in Kali, or should I on the ALFA USB adapter I bought?Has anyone else gotten this chipset working on bare metal in recent Kali builds?I’m aware the AX201 isn’t ideal for all Kali tools, but at this point, I’d just like basic Wi-Fi functionality so I can continue setup and updates without being tethered.
Is buying a second hand laptop for using Kali Linux worth it? Is buying a second hand laptop for using Kali Linux worth it?u/IamJohnWick2•8 mo. agoIs buying a second hand laptop for using Kali Linux worth it?Question - Kali GeneralI have used Ubuntu as dual boot with Windows. I am starting with cybersecurity, and it requires using Kali. I am thinking of buying a cheap secondhand laptop for using Kali bare metal (to give it full access of hardware) with maybe Whonix in VM. Also, I am scared that Dark Net access and retracing malware might affect my main os and private files. Moreover, I use my main laptop for Uni and personal purposes so allotting dedicated RAM and storage is always a problem.I am getting a used Dell Inspiron i7 6th gen laptop (250gb SSD and 8gb RAM) for Rs.15k (175usd). I suppose it's a good deal for my use case. Should I go for it or am I just embellishing?
Choppy audio on my bluetooth headphones Choppy audio on my bluetooth headphonesu/AmrKhalil8967•8 mo. agoChoppy audio on my bluetooth headphonesQuestion - Kali General
I want to learn networking using Kali Linux, but I don't want to enable Intel Virtualization Technology. Are there any alternative to VirtualBox that doesn't use Intel Virtualization Technology? I want to learn networking using Kali Linux, but I don't want to enable Intel Virtualization Technology. Are there any alternative to VirtualBox that doesn't use Intel Virtualization Technology?u/vismoh2010•8 mo. agoI want to learn networking using Kali Linux, but I don't want to enable Intel Virtualization Technology. Are there any alternative to VirtualBox that doesn't use Intel Virtualization Technology?Question - Kali GeneralBasically title.I don't wanna enable Intel Virtualization Technology because I have undervolted my CPU and that won't work if Intel Virtualization Technology is enabled.I was thinking about dual-booting until I read that running Kali Linux bare metal is a bad idea.I also read about using QEMU/KVM but I don't want to use a type-1 hypervisor since I think it reduces performance, and moreover I'm not comfortable with the idea of Windows (the OS I use 90% of the time) running as a VM itself.My last resort is running Kali Linux from a USB drive but I assume that would be quite slow since USB drives don't have the greatest read/write speeds.I know that I'm asking for too much but I thought it's worth giving it a shot.if it helps i have a beefy laptop - i9 14900hx + 4070 + 32 GB Ram + 1 TB storage
In XFCE, the tools are neatly organized into different folders. But in GNOME, they are a broken mess. Any idea on how to bring back those organized folders like it is on XFCE? In XFCE, the tools are neatly organized into different folders. But in GNOME, they are a broken mess. Any idea on how to bring back those organized folders like it is on XFCE?u/CommunistAdvisor1975•8 mo. agoIn XFCE, the tools are neatly organized into different folders. But in GNOME, they are a broken mess. Any idea on how to bring back those organized folders like it is on XFCE?Question - Kali General
Is it viable to install Kali Linux on an external HDD and use it with full persistence across different computers? Is it viable to install Kali Linux on an external HDD and use it with full persistence across different computers?u/Creative-Tangelo-529•8 mo. agoIs it viable to install Kali Linux on an external HDD and use it with full persistence across different computers?Question - Kali GeneralHi everyone, I'm considering installing Kali Linux as a full system (not just a Live USB) on an external hard drive, so I can carry it with me and boot it on different machines (Macs or PCs) as if it were my main OS.My goal is to have full persistence — saving configurations, tools, scripts, etc. — and be able to boot directly from the external HDD anywhere.Has anyone done this successfully? Are there issues with hardware compatibility, drivers, UEFI/BIOS booting, or system stability when switching between computers? Would it be better to just use a Live USB with persistence instead of a full install?Any advice or experience is much appreciated!
Kali Boot Issue Kali Boot Issueu/Same_Molasses_2523•8 mo. agoKali Boot IssueQuestion - Kali ARMI used the 2025.2 image as well as the Rapberry Pi Imager. It appears to boot normally then a blinking cursor appears at the top left of the screen...not a command prompt. A few seconds later the blinking cursor disappears and nothing else happens. I am using RPI3. Any assistance would be greatly appreciated as I have used several different images and they all behave the same....no desktop. Thanks!
nVidia Driver with LightDM on Bare Metal issue nVidia Driver with LightDM on Bare Metal issueu/-Nuummite•8 mo. agonVidia Driver with LightDM on Bare Metal issueDiscussionSharing this in case others are in a similar boat.I Installed Kali (Purple) on BareMetal over the weekend, simply for fun.Trying to get the nVidia driver working with it was a bit of a mission. Seems like the original nVidia package on the repo, causes some odd chase condition when parried with LightDM. Like a chase condition.It would boot up to a tty session, logging in running `nvidia-smi,` I could see the driver was running. I could `startx` from here and get my desktop. Be it without the XFCE4 panel.After a while, and reading online various fixes, I ended up manually added `nvidia-drm.modeset=1` to the parameters in `/etc/default/grub`.After doing this, I could boot up and now see LightDM login page as expected. And simply just reinstalled the XFCE4 panel. Not sure why this went to begin with.
What will Kali's Devs do about the Xorg issue ? What will Kali's Devs do about the Xorg issue ?u/ZiradielR13•8 mo. agoWhat will Kali's Devs do about the Xorg issue ?Question - Kali Generalso as I'm sure you have heard about Xorg getting nurffed and being replaced by Wayland. Ubuntu is following Fedora’s lead in adopting Wayland, and although Wayland is rapidly shaping up to be the future of the Linux desktop, offering a more modern and secure alternative to the aging X11-based Xorg display server protocol. With its modular design, Wayland delivers smoother graphics, enhanced security, and better support for modern hardware. Where does that leave us On systems like Kali Linux, Parrot Security OS, Backbox, and other Distros that focus on Pentesting tools ? Will our tools still work ? Will they break or become incompatible whats the plan here ? One thing I have found that could be a saving grace is. XLibre a fork of the X.org X server, started by long-term X.org maintainer Enrico Weigelt. The project aims to develop and improve the Xorg display server, as an alternative to the newer and more fashionable Wayland display protocol. Question is will this be rolling out to Kali users through an update soon or shall we be forced to fend for ourselves ?
Change password troubles Change password troublesu/stainedtopcat•8 mo. agoChange password troublesQuestion - Kali GeneralI have an old install of kali linux booted onto an old macbook pro 2009. Im not able to remember the login or password  (kali/kali) doesnt work as i changed it. Instead of reinstalling everything im attempting to edit the password through GNU GRUB (kali linux recovery mode).  I press 'e' to edit the commands before booting. I added changed ro to rw and added single init=/bin/bash   No problem.Once i get the command line to pop up i cant type any commands. I cant type "passwd" or anything. I understand that If i was able to run that command changing the actual password would not show any *'s. My problem is i cant actually type anything in there. IM a newb any help appreciated
Kali Linux 2025.2 Release (Kali Menu Refresh, BloodHound CE & CARsenal) | Kali Linux Blog Kali Linux 2025.2 Release (Kali Menu Refresh, BloodHound CE & CARsenal) | Kali Linux Blogu/Arszilla•8 mo. agoKali Linux 2025.2 Release (Kali Menu Refresh, BloodHound CE & CARsenal) | Kali Linux BlogRelease Noteshttps://www.kali.org/blog/kali-linux-2025-2-release/
Kali WSL seamless mode crash Kali WSL seamless mode crashu/ritman-octos•8 mo. agoKali WSL seamless mode crashQuestion - Kali GeneralDid anyone manage to use seamless mode without crashing? window mode works perfectly but seamless always crashes.Followed the exact steps inhttps://www.kali.org/docs/wsl/win-kex-sl/:VcXsrv requiresVisual C++ Redistributable for Visual Studio 2015(vcredist140)It should be included in standard Windows installations but if you receive an error complaining that it is missing, just download and install it(Optional, but recommended)VcXsrv running directly on the hostSetup VcXsrvStart -> Settings -> Privacy & security -> Windows Security -> Open Windows Security Firewall & network projection -> Allow an app through the firewall -> Change settings -> Select both entries of “VcXsrv windows server” -> OKAdd inbound firewall rules to project the X serverBut still crashes after 30mins-1hour
Nexmon firmware on Kali 2025.1a for Raspberry Pi 5 Nexmon firmware on Kali 2025.1a for Raspberry Pi 5u/WetAssQueef•8 mo. agoNexmon firmware on Kali 2025.1a for Raspberry Pi 5Question - Kali ARMHi all,The Kali docs state that "The Raspberry Pi 5 image does not yet include Nexmon support for the internal Wi-Fi card. If you plan to do wireless testing, you will need to use a USB Wi-Fi adapter".Can anybody shed a bit more light onto this? What is the challenge exactly? Seems like as of 2025.1a the module is there, but no firmware.I'm just trying to decide if I should go and try to download and install the firmware myself, offer my own help to the team, or if it's pointless cause I'd just hit the same roadblock as the devs.Also, Is there a GitHub or something I can go to follow the issue?Cheers,
Help syncing MacBook Air M2 keyboard with KaliLinux on VMware Help syncing MacBook Air M2 keyboard with KaliLinux on VMwareu/stylobasket•8 mo. agoHelp syncing MacBook Air M2 keyboard with KaliLinux on VMwareQuestion - Kali ARMHi everyone,I’m running KaliLinux on VMware using a MacBook Air M2, and I’m having trouble getting the keyboard layout to match perfectly. I’ve already selected my language during setup, and I made sure to pick the one that has (Macintosh) at the end. Despite that, some keys are still mismatched (for example, special characters or certain symbols don’t correspond correctly).Has anyone else experienced this and found a reliable fix? Any tips on how to make the MacBook keyboard map correctly within the VM?Thanks in advance!
weird terminal behavior in kali-linux running in WSL2 weird terminal behavior in kali-linux running in WSL2u/OGmicrowave•8 mo. agoweird terminal behavior in kali-linux running in WSL2Question - Kali General
Nethunter won't install on OnePlus 1 Nethunter won't install on OnePlus 1u/DaikiIchiro•9 mo. agoNethunter won't install on OnePlus 1Question - Kali NetHunterHEy everyone,i got my hands on an old OnePlus One yesterday, and immediately worked on getting Nethunter to work.I followed the instructions of the official documentation almost to a tee.Link to the official documentation/TutorialI downloaded all the files from the documentation, however, I had to diverge at one point (more on that in a bit).I first installed TWRP via ADB, then flashed the original Cyanogen, then LineageOS17 and finally LineageOS 18.I then installed Magisk and flashed the OS which went surprisingly fast. After Installing the IMG file, it only took a second, which in my eyes was too fast, but maybe it's just like this....Anyway, I finally reached the point to install Nethunter, and here is where things went south.THe official doc says to download "fs-full"; however, from the official repository, I only get offered "fs-minimal". So I tried that and.....it told me "this is not a valid ZIP file". Okay, I thought, maybe things are missing, so I rather compile my own zip file, using the git and followthis tutorial.But nope, turns out, that wasn't it.....SO i basically now have LineageOS 18.1 on the system, and here I am stuck.Has anyone experience with this and can point me in the right direction. I thinkl something went wrong after installing Magisk and flashing the boot image .Thank you in advanceRegardsRaine
Basic Questions Megathread Basic Questions Megathreadu/AutoModerator•9 mo. agoBasic Questions MegathreadMegathreadHere, users who are new to Kali Linux can ask basic questions about it and its functionality and receive assistance regarding potential issues they are facing. Please remember to follow the subreddit rules when asking your questions.Before posting, make sure you have reviewedKali's Documentation, as the answer may be well-documented. Additionally, please refer to the following articles to ensure you ask proper and high-quality questions:How do I ask a good questionHow to ask questions the smart wayThe XY problemDon't ask to askPlease remember that while AI/LLM models like ChatGPT can be useful, they are not a substitute for proper troubleshooting. When seeking assistance, it's important to refer to the documentation of the tool, program, or OS you're using and to use your preferred search engine for further research.This megathread will be posted monthly.
WiFi connection issue – Password correct but system says wrong password WiFi connection issue – Password correct but system says wrong passwordu/Unlucky_Catch4594•9 mo. agoWiFi connection issue – Password correct but system says wrong passwordQuestion - Kali GeneralHello,I am using Kali Linux and I have a problem with my WiFi connection. The WiFi password is 100% correct, but when I try to connect, the system tells me the password is wrong.I have tried entering the password many times and confirmed it is correct, but the problem persists.I would appreciate your help to resolve this issue.Thank you very much.
Nethunter terminal Nethunter terminalu/Excellent_Fix_4547•9 mo. agoNethunter terminalQuestion - Kali NetHunter
Help: Audio Too Loud and Sound Bar Not Working Help: Audio Too Loud and Sound Bar Not Workingu/TheLiesofNetSys•9 mo. agoHelp: Audio Too Loud and Sound Bar Not WorkingQuestion - Kali GeneralRelatively new to Kali. Running it on an old MSi laptop that I converted from Windows 10. Just plugged in a set of Samsung earbuds to listen to a few things while working in the library, but I'm having issues with the audio.While the earbuds are plugged in, adjusting the output volume does nothing unless it's set to 0% volume. i.e. regardless if its on 50%, 100%, whatever, it's playing at the same exact volume from the earbuds and is very loud, too loud to be comfortable.I've found a temporary workaround by going into the advance settings and turning down the audio of the specific page I'm listening to. For example, I turn down the audio on the Firefox tab to about 30%, and it works, kinda.But the setting resets every time the page loads a new video or I pause or resume the current video. It's very inconvenient and I have no idea why it's doing this. Any help would be appreciated. Not sure what specs are relevant to this but just ask and I'll tell you.
Help with Nethunter kernel rebuild for wifi dongle support on OnePlus 8T Help with Nethunter kernel rebuild for wifi dongle support on OnePlus 8Tu/chownsauce•9 mo. agoHelp with Nethunter kernel rebuild for wifi dongle support on OnePlus 8TQuestion - Kali NetHunter
OnePlus 7t pro kernel OnePlus 7t pro kernel[deleted]•9 mo. agoOnePlus 7t pro kernelQuestion - Kali NetHunterRecently replaced my screen on my OnePlus 7t pro EU version. It already had root and nethunter installed. I put iwconfig in the nethunter terminal, I didn't see the WiFi chip on my phone. Decided to flash the kernel I already had stored on my phoneOnly thing is the WiFi chip did show on the terminal. I just didn't see itNow the WiFi chip doesn't work for monitor mode/packet injection. I can't use twrp or orange fox to flash the kernel because the screen I got is a LCD not the proper omoled screenAny idea what I can do to flash the kernel? Does anyone have a OnePlus 7t pro kernel for nethunter?
Kali Linux Installation Kali Linux Installationu/Extra_Cheetah_3528•9 mo. agoKali Linux InstallationQuestion - Kali GeneralProblem logging into Kali Linux after restartHey guys! I'm facing a strange issue with Kali Linux. After installing the system, I can use it normally, I create my username (xxxx) and set the password (xxxx). Everything works fine during the initial session — I can use the terminal, run commands, install packages, etc.However, after I turn the machine off and on again, the system no longer accepts my password when logging in. I have already reinstalled Kali four times, always configuring the username and password carefully, and the problem repeats itself.Has anyone gone through this? Could it be a bug, keyboard layout error, or something specific to the installation?I appreciate any tips!
Linux is showing sdb1 on fdisk Linux is showing sdb1 on fdisku/Trashpandafarts•9 mo. agoLinux is showing sdb1 on fdiskQuestion - Kali General
im not able to move the info frame like "cpu useage, time, icons etc" to the right anymore, help im not able to move the info frame like "cpu useage, time, icons etc" to the right anymore, helpu/LETMESOLOTHIS•9 mo. agoim not able to move the info frame like "cpu useage, time, icons etc" to the right anymore, helpQuestion - Kali General
chromebook-veyron.sh fails to compile chromebook-veyron.sh fails to compileu/Difficult-Bag-9080•9 mo. agochromebook-veyron.sh fails to compileQuestion - Kali ARMHello,I am trying to compilechromebook-veyron.sh, but it fails with an error: "Failed to enable unit: Unit ssh.service does not exist". However, when I check the ssh.service - it is showing as active.I am compiling on the latest version of Kali linux with all dependencies installed and do not know how to solve this error. Any help would be much appreciated.
Pixel 3 XL Kali NetHunter Clamshell Palmtop Pixel 3 XL Kali NetHunter Clamshell Palmtopu/sgordienko•9 mo. agoPixel 3 XL Kali NetHunter Clamshell PalmtopDiscussion
Oh no! something went wrong. Oh no! something went wrong.u/powroznikGang•9 mo. agoOh no! something went wrong.Question - Kali General
Active Cooler fan not working with KALI linux Active Cooler fan not working with KALI linux[deleted]•9 mo. agoActive Cooler fan not working with KALI linuxDiscussioni have just bought a new raspberry pi 5 and i have installed kali linux on it , the issue i am facing is that the active cooler fan works only when the system is booting up but , it does not work the rest of the time.Is there a setting that i need to enable or a specific command that i need to execute in order to make it work.The fan works completely fine when i use raspberry pi os but on linux it does not work after boot.
Terminal color schemes gone, just because? Terminal color schemes gone, just because?u/FewOffice1998•9 mo. agoTerminal color schemes gone, just because?Question - Kali General
Instructions for installing RTL8812/14 drivers on Kali VM Rolling 2025 Instructions for installing RTL8812/14 drivers on Kali VM Rolling 2025u/realKevinNash•9 mo. agoInstructions for installing RTL8812/14 drivers on Kali VM Rolling 2025DiscussionSo i've had an issue with getting my AWUS 1900 to run on kali VM. I decided to dig into it today and with the help of others got it working. I wanted to share that with you all in case anyone was having the same issues.Chances are if you want to install these drivers you'll find videos from years ago on the topic. Even some AI's may send you to these videos. They will send you to the Aircrack github to grab the rtl8812au/rtl8814au drivershere. That page says the page is deprecated and if you are like me you will look for a new youtube video which sends you to a slightly different instruction set for a year later but had a comment from last year saying it worked and you'll start the process.Somewhere in the middle you'll get an error regarding the linux-headers are not found and you'll try to grab them from APT (duh the install couldnt find them there) and you'll start googling and not having much luck.You'll go back and look at that rtw88 project and try it only to find the same issue. Eventually you'll seethesedrivers and again have the same issue. And throw your hands up. At this point I called a friend who did some digging.The header files are in the repo but cant be found using the search command that was listed ... somewhere.https://http.kali.org/kali/pool/main/l/linux-headers-6.12.13-amd64_6.12.13-1kali1_amd64.debYou'll try to install this via dpkg only to find out you need 2 additional files from this repo before you can install the headers. Download and install via dpkglinux-headers-6.12.13-common_6.12.13-1kali1_all.debandlinux-kbuild-6.12.13_6.12.13_6.12.13-1kali1_amd64.debFinally you can navigate to the 8812au-20210820 directory and run sudo ./install-driver.shTLDR: clone the morrownr github for 8812au drivers, download and install the kbuild, header-common and header files, then navigate back to the morrownr directory and run the install driver shell script, and reboot when prompted. Use your VM software to connect your adapter and hopefully it is working for you.
Won't boot into GUI - startx works Won't boot into GUI - startx worksu/Happy01Lucky•9 mo. agoWon't boot into GUI - startx worksQuestion - Kali GeneralAfter nvidia driver install something went wrong and Kali no longer boots into the GUI. I can use startx to enter the GUI and that works fine but I have to startx after each reboot which is slightly annoying. How do I fix this?
How to reset terminal appareance? How to reset terminal appareance?u/One_Cod_7684•9 mo. agoHow to reset terminal appareance?Question - Kali General
KDE sddm background change? KDE sddm background change?[deleted]•9 mo. agoKDE sddm background change?Question - Kali GeneralIs it possible to modify the sddm? I want to change just the wallpaper at max, but there is absolutely no visual settings inSystem Settings
Second monitor problem Second monitor problemu/InspectionFar5415•9 mo. agoSecond monitor problemQuestion - Kali General
Kali 2025.1c update issue Kali 2025.1c update issueu/asanonymouss•9 mo. agoKali 2025.1c update issueQuestion - Kali General
Sound problem Sound problemu/__get_name__•9 mo. agoSound problemQuestion - Kali GeneralHi all, after installing fresh kali(Kali 6.12.25-1kali1 (2025-04-30) x86_64 GNU/Linux) it appears no sound in my integrated laptop dynamics.What have you tried:I triedmain page note about itreinstall pipewire, pipewire-alsa, pipewire-pulse, wireplumberChecked that it not muted in alsamixeraplay -D directly on card also had no resultsWhat is the error:First of all some info about my system:$ systemctl --user status pipewire pipewire-pulse wireplumber ● pipewire.service - PipeWire Multimedia Service      Loaded: loaded (/usr/lib/systemd/user/pipewire.service; enabled; preset: enabled)     Drop-In: /usr/lib/systemd/user/pipewire.service.d              └─kali.conf      Active: active (running) since Sun 2025-05-11 09:44:45 MSK; 20min ago  Invocation: aac927ac9a204942bcb5344c639e710f TriggeredBy: ● pipewire.socket    Main PID: 1446 (pipewire)       Tasks: 3 (limit: 18497)      Memory: 16.2M (peak: 16.6M)         CPU: 799ms      CGroup: /user.slice/user-1000.slice/user@1000.service/session.slice/pipewire.service              └─1446 /usr/bin/pipewire  May 11 09:44:45 b31 systemd[1425]: Started pipewire.service - PipeWire Multimedia Service.  ● pipewire-pulse.service - PipeWire PulseAudio      Loaded: loaded (/usr/lib/systemd/user/pipewire-pulse.service; enabled; preset: enabled)     Drop-In: /usr/lib/systemd/user/pipewire-pulse.service.d              └─kali.conf      Active: active (running) since Sun 2025-05-11 09:44:45 MSK; 20min ago  Invocation: 8df264ae90454e7db8f479af7aa00e6f TriggeredBy: ● pipewire-pulse.socket    Main PID: 1450 (pipewire-pulse)       Tasks: 3 (limit: 18497)      Memory: 26.3M (peak: 26.3M)         CPU: 627ms      CGroup: /user.slice/user-1000.slice/user@1000.service/session.slice/pipewire-pulse.service              └─1450 /usr/bin/pipewire-pulse  May 11 09:44:45 b31 systemd[1425]: Started pipewire-pulse.service - PipeWire PulseAudio.  ● wireplumber.service - Multimedia Service Session Manager      Loaded: loaded (/usr/lib/systemd/user/wireplumber.service; enabled; preset: enabled)      Active: active (running) since Sun 2025-05-11 09:44:45 MSK; 20min ago  Invocation: 07c682e7896a4a4d8a84e901daa26fa9    Main PID: 1448 (wireplumber)       Tasks: 6 (limit: 18497)      Memory: 6.6M (peak: 8.3M)         CPU: 300ms      CGroup: /user.slice/user-1000.slice/user@1000.service/session.slice/wireplumber.service              └─1448 /usr/bin/wireplumber  May 11 09:44:45 b31 systemd[1425]: Started wireplumber.service - Multimedia Service Session Manager. May 11 09:44:45 b31 wireplumber[1448]: wp-internal-comp-loader: Loading profile 'main' May 11 09:44:45 b31 wireplumber[1448]: default: Failed to get percentage from UPower: org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.NameHasNoOwner May 11 09:44:45 b31 wireplumber[1448]: spa.bluez5: BlueZ system service is not available May 11 09:44:45 b31 wireplumber[1448]: wp-device: SPA handle 'api.libcamera.enum.manager' could not be loaded; is it installed? May 11 09:44:45 b31 wireplumber[1448]: s-monitors-libcamera: PipeWire's libcamera SPA plugin is missing or broken. Some camera types may not be supported.   $ pactl list sinks short 56      alsa_output.pci-0000_00_1f.3-platform-skl_hda_dsp_generic.HiFi__HDMI3__sink     PipeWire        s24-32le 2ch 48000Hz    SUSPENDED 57      alsa_output.pci-0000_00_1f.3-platform-skl_hda_dsp_generic.HiFi__HDMI2__sink     PipeWire        s24-32le 2ch 48000Hz    SUSPENDED 58      alsa_output.pci-0000_00_1f.3-platform-skl_hda_dsp_generic.HiFi__HDMI1__sink     PipeWire        s24-32le 2ch 48000Hz    SUSPENDED 59      alsa_output.pci-0000_00_1f.3-platform-skl_hda_dsp_generic.HiFi__Speaker__sink   PipeWire        s32le 2ch 48000Hz       RUNNING  pactl get-default-sink alsa_output.pci-0000_00_1f.3-platform-skl_hda_dsp_generic.HiFi__Speaker__sink   aplay -l                                                      **** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices **** card 0: NVidia [HDA NVidia], device 3: HDMI 0 [HDMI 0]   Subdevices: 1/1   Subdevice #0: subdevice #0 card 0: NVidia [HDA NVidia], device 7: HDMI 1 [HDMI 1]   Subdevices: 1/1   Subdevice #0: subdevice #0 card 0: NVidia [HDA NVidia], device 8: HDMI 2 [HDMI 2]   Subdevices: 1/1   Subdevice #0: subdevice #0 card 0: NVidia [HDA NVidia], device 9: HDMI 3 [HDMI 3]   Subdevices: 1/1   Subdevice #0: subdevice #0 card 1: sofhdadsp [sof-hda-dsp], device 0: HDA Analog (*) []   Subdevices: 1/1   Subdevice #0: subdevice #0 card 1: sofhdadsp [sof-hda-dsp], device 3: HDMI1 (*) []   Subdevices: 1/1   Subdevice #0: subdevice #0 card 1: sofhdadsp [sof-hda-dsp], device 4: HDMI2 (*) []   Subdevices: 1/1   Subdevice #0: subdevice #0 card 1: sofhdadsp [sof-hda-dsp], device 5: HDMI3 (*) []   Subdevices: 1/1   Subdevice #0: subdevice #0 card 1: sofhdadsp [sof-hda-dsp], device 31: HDA Analog Deep Buffer (*) []   Subdevices: 1/1   Subdevice #0: subdevice #0And after all i saw how output level trembles when some mp3 played or web video, but no sound at all.What device is this on:Lenovo ThinkPad P1 Gen6 i7 RaptorLake Rtx4050What im doing wrong any suggestions?
For more than 20 years,  @osuosl  has been providing critical infrastructure for major FOSS projects, including Kali: https://kali.org/blog/ampere/. For more than 20 years,  @osuosl  has been providing critical infrastructure for major FOSS projects, including Kali: https://kali.org/blog/ampere/.u/Far_Interest252•9 mo. agoFor more than 20 years,  @osuosl  has been providing critical infrastructure for major FOSS projects, including Kali: https://kali.org/blog/ampere/.Discussionhttps://x.com/kalilinux/status/1920806665059782690
Is osboxes safe to download older versions of kali? Is osboxes safe to download older versions of kali?u/TurnipHistorical2838•9 mo. agoIs osboxes safe to download older versions of kali?Question - Kali GeneralHello guys, basically I need a driver for tp link archer t2u plus but the one on github doesnt work on the lastest version of kali, which is why I want to download an older version (im using a virtual machine), I looked around a bit and some dont trust osboxes, someone said he might have gotten a virus after downloading from them, while other thinks its safe to use If it isnt safe are there any alternatives? Thank you for your timeEdit: and yeah I checked in the original website but any download link just redirects to the lastest version page
kali reinstall help. kali reinstall help.u/leggyloglinux•9 mo. agokali reinstall help.Question - Kali GeneralSo i got a hyper specific scenario for you. recently i installed kde plasma to my kali, but instead of getting rid of the other DEs manaually, i wanted to freshly install the os, partly cause there's a new version for it this year. i go to do it, but it seems i may have messed up my disk i'm using for storage. using the graphical installer, i made efi and boot, but when i go to make my encrypted volume, the boot partition spits an error and the volume creation fails. i tried dd with if=/dev/zero to zero out the drive but it's taking forever-on an already wiped drive from the night before, this was just asurance-leading me to believe the drive is messed up somehow. i even kill the dd and it still says the drive is being used by the kernel. at this point i'm thinking of booting tails on a stick and manually wiping and trying again. thoughts?
Help with ffuf auto-completion and _python-argcomplete error on Kali Help with ffuf auto-completion and _python-argcomplete error on Kaliu/Few_Visit_3956•9 mo. agoHelp with ffuf auto-completion and _python-argcomplete error on KaliQuestion - Kali GeneralHi everyone,I'm running Kali and trying to useffufwith the following command:ffuf -uhttp://lookup.thm-w /usr/share/worBut every time I presstab, I get the following repeated error:(eval):1: _python-argcomplete: function definition file not foundIt seems like shell completion isn't working properly for me, and this error appears every time I run the command.Has anyone encountered this before? Any suggestions on how to fix or suppress this message and get auto-completion working properly?Thanks in advance!
Basic Questions Megathread Basic Questions Megathreadu/AutoModerator•10 mo. agoBasic Questions MegathreadMegathreadHere, users who are new to Kali Linux can ask basic questions about it and its functionality and receive assistance regarding potential issues they are facing. Please remember to follow the subreddit rules when asking your questions.Before posting, make sure you have reviewedKali's Documentation, as the answer may be well-documented. Additionally, please refer to the following articles to ensure you ask proper and high-quality questions:How do I ask a good questionHow to ask questions the smart wayThe XY problemDon't ask to askPlease remember that while AI/LLM models like ChatGPT can be useful, they are not a substitute for proper troubleshooting. When seeking assistance, it's important to refer to the documentation of the tool, program, or OS you're using and to use your preferred search engine for further research.This megathread will be posted monthly.
NetHunter Installation Server Down Problem NetHunter Installation Server Down Problemu/DefiantGroup7618•10 mo. agoNetHunter Installation Server Down ProblemQuestion - Kali NetHunterEncountering an issue while trying to install Kali NetHunter rootless on Android 7.1.1 via Termux.Steps taken:Downloaded the official script:wgethttps://offs.ec/2MceZWr-O install-nethunter-termux(This step completed successfully).Made the script executable and ran it:chmod +x install-nethunter-termux, then./install-nethunter-termux.Proceeded with the installation prompts and selected image option 1 (full image).The script then attempts to download the rootfs fromhttps://image-nethunter.kali.org/nethunter-fs/kali-daily/..., but this consistently fails with an HTTP Error 521 ("Web Server Is Down" or connection refused).I've verified the initial script download link is working correctly. The problem appears to be specifically with theimage-nethunter.kali.orgserver used for the main image download. I've waited for several days and retried the installation, but the 521 error persists.Does anyone have current information on the status of theimage-nethunter.kali.orgserver? Or are there any officially sanctioned alternative sources or methods for downloading the NetHunter rootfs when the primary server is down?Thanks for any relevant information or assistance.
I installed kali Linux on virtual box with GNOME and when I open the files app this is what happens. I installed kali Linux on virtual box with GNOME and when I open the files app this is what happens.u/Used_Dragonfruit8922•10 mo. agoI installed kali Linux on virtual box with GNOME and when I open the files app this is what happens.Question - Kali General
A New Kali Linux Archive Signing Key A New Kali Linux Archive Signing Keyu/Arszilla•10 mo. agoA New Kali Linux Archive Signing KeyBlogposthttps://www.kali.org/blog/new-kali-archive-signing-key/
Apt update failing? This is probably why: A New Kali Linux Archive Signing Key Apt update failing? This is probably why: A New Kali Linux Archive Signing Keyu/TheDarthSnarf•10 mo. agoApt update failing? This is probably why: A New Kali Linux Archive Signing KeyDiscussionhttps://www.kali.org/blog/new-kali-archive-signing-key/
Trying my damnest to install sage math on Kali, nothing seems to work Trying my damnest to install sage math on Kali, nothing seems to worku/Thomillion•10 mo. agoTrying my damnest to install sage math on Kali, nothing seems to workQuestion - Kali GeneralHave been trying to install sage math on my Kali machine for some cryptography work but it has been failing every trick I've seen online, anyone has managed to do it? And if yes, how?
Short story time, My oldest and running Kali install.. Short story time, My oldest and running Kali install..u/Von_plaf•10 mo. agoShort story time, My oldest and running Kali install..Discussion
Nethunter Unihertz Tank 3 Nethunter Unihertz Tank 3u/EEPROM1605•10 mo. agoNethunter Unihertz Tank 3DiscussionWe need an official NH image for the Tank3 Pro. Im watching videos on this thing and it would make an amazing host to run NH. Anyone have the same thoughts? Massive battery plus projector + a BT keyboard would be so sick.
screen off issue screen off issueu/Dry_Amphibian_5340•10 mo. agoscreen off issueQuestion - Kali NetHunterInstalled nethunter via magisk , everything works fine , there is one issue , when i connect from my pc vnc to my phone , it works til my phone screen goes off, when phone screen goes off, vnc stop working. what should I do?
How do I get my windows boot back? How do I get my windows boot back?u/FARCRY4op2517•10 mo. agoHow do I get my windows boot back?Question - Kali GeneralEdit:RESOLVEDI installed kali using a partition in my name (since my laptop thing only has one) and I finished it after it taking a few tries. So, I can boot into kali perfectly fine, but I don’t see my windows boot anywhere. I tried following ChatGPT and I tried to os-probe, and I’m lost… I see the EFI partition, I see my whole windows partition, it just won’t let me access it. I probably could just wipe the partition and that’ll probably get be back to windows, but I’d rather not do that unless I absolutely have to. So yeah, yall have any ideas?
How to keep network configurations, browser passwords etc on kali live with persistence How to keep network configurations, browser passwords etc on kali live with persistenceu/SAS379•10 mo. agoHow to keep network configurations, browser passwords etc on kali live with persistenceQuestion - Kali GeneralI have my kali live working nicely. I made my persistence which works. Followed the docs which mean I mounted a partition and that is all well.I am wondering if I can have persistence remember my configurations and passwords, plus any uodates I make etc…As far as I understand I have a mounted fs that is not related to anything going on on the operating system. It’s like I can store some text files etc but no real altering or history of my interaction with the os. Essentially, I want the os root directory to start in persistence.If this is not possible would configuration files and a bash script on startup work? And again, confused on how to save that cron job in this scenario.
Does this work on kali? Does this work on kali?u/SAS379•10 mo. agoDoes this work on kali?Question - Kali GeneralI have a kid and this beeping at night is so obnoxiously loud. I know it’s there for visually disabled people. I saw the option to edit the grub configuration. My grub configuration does not show the line that I have seen others recommending to comment.Specifically, does blacklisting the modules work.https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/PC_speaker#Disable_PC_Speaker
does anyone have any idea how to fix this glitch does anyone have any idea how to fix this glitchu/NDL12345678910•10 mo. agodoes anyone have any idea how to fix this glitchQuestion - Kali GeneralMy kali linux is set up and used to work on virtual box. however suddenly one day i encountered this issue where i log in just fine and then once im logged in it just freezes but its not the black screen glitch. it freezes on this page just after the log in. does anyone have any idea why this is happening??i tried reverse google searching the image, i been trying stuff for over an hour and I still havent found a solution to this issue. if anyone has any idea why this is happening please let me know.
2025.1 running awesome on pinephone-pro 2025.1 running awesome on pinephone-prou/Frayedknot64•1 yr. ago2025.1 running awesome on pinephone-proQuestion - Kali GeneralJust putting this up for anyone on the fence about trying it, after it's installed you'll notice it's set to latest-snapshot repo, probably best at least for myself 🙂️ Have to run an "echo "debhttp://http.kali.org/kalikali-last-snapshot main contrib non-free non-free-firmware" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list" before apt update will run, at least that was my experience, errored out unauthorized before I did.
Basic Questions Megathread Basic Questions Megathreadu/AutoModerator•1 yr. agoBasic Questions MegathreadMegathreadHere, users who are new to Kali Linux can ask basic questions about it and its functionality and receive assistance regarding potential issues they are facing. Please remember to follow the subreddit rules when asking your questions.Before posting, make sure you have reviewedKali's Documentation, as the answer may be well-documented. Additionally, please refer to the following articles to ensure you ask proper and high-quality questions:How do I ask a good questionHow to ask questions the smart wayThe XY problemDon't ask to askPlease remember that while AI/LLM models like ChatGPT can be useful, they are not a substitute for proper troubleshooting. When seeking assistance, it's important to refer to the documentation of the tool, program, or OS you're using and to use your preferred search engine for further research.This megathread will be posted monthly.
Kali failed to boot. Kali failed to boot.u/The-Mighty-Wing•1 yr. agoKali failed to boot.Question - Kali GeneralSo Iam trying to install and run Kali on virtaul box on my Mac. For a while now it keeps giving me this error even though the installer is in the controller IDECan someone help solve this. Also, here are the settings
Neofetch not working on fresh install of kallilinux Neofetch not working on fresh install of kallilinuxu/Odd-Musician-6697•1 yr. agoNeofetch not working on fresh install of kallilinuxQuestion - Kali General
Cannot connect or see mobile hotspots Cannot connect or see mobile hotspotsu/JosefGoldschmit33•1 yr. agoCannot connect or see mobile hotspotsQuestion - Kali GeneralMy home internet is super slow and for a long time now i've been using my mobile hotspot which works fine on all my devices. Earlier today i had to reinstall a clean copy of kali on my raspberry pi 5 and since then i haven't been able to access my mobile hotspot. Keep in mind that this did work earlier.Does anyone have any ideas on how i can fix this? I can't live with a download speed of 240kB/s
Force Live usb to go straight into live with persistence Force Live usb to go straight into live with persistenceu/d0dgi•1 yr. agoForce Live usb to go straight into live with persistenceQuestion - Kali Generalgday im wondering if there is way to essentially remove the other boot options from the iso or force it to go straight into live persistent.The reason being im using a touch screen pc, boot menu, bios, and the live os itself all support touchscreen but the menu for kali live does not so every time i want to boot in I have to attach a physical keyboard to select my kali live option.if i could just remove the other options or set live persistent as default and add a auto timer that would be fine. just something to bridge the gab between selecting the boot drive and getting into the OS.thanks for any help!
pipewire pegging a core @ 100% constantly after update last night pipewire pegging a core @ 100% constantly after update last nightu/Frayedknot64•1 yr. agopipewire pegging a core @ 100% constantly after update last nightQuestion - Kali Generalanyone else seeing this ? only bugs me cause it's my phone, heats it up and drains the battery, using arc on sd card til running update fixes it some day, not sure if it's a problem with pipewire or underlying ubuntu framework
Kali topographic wallpapers inspired by Offsec's contours wallpaper [2560x1440] Kali topographic wallpapers inspired by Offsec's contours wallpaper [2560x1440]u/ca_ribou•1 yr. agoKali topographic wallpapers inspired by Offsec's contours wallpaper [2560x1440]Discussion
Kali Linux 2025.1a Release (2025 Theme, & Raspberry Pi) Kali Linux 2025.1a Release (2025 Theme, & Raspberry Pi)u/Arszilla•1 yr. agoKali Linux 2025.1a Release (2025 Theme, & Raspberry Pi)Release Noteshttps://www.kali.org/blog/kali-linux-2025-1-release/
Got this error and cant fins anything on internet About it Got this error and cant fins anything on internet About itu/ONsoleOFFICIAL•1 yr. agoGot this error and cant fins anything on internet About itQuestion - Kali General
The latest Kernel(s) are breaking XFCE. The latest Kernel(s) are breaking XFCE.u/LittleIcebergLettuce•1 yr. agoThe latest Kernel(s) are breaking XFCE.DiscussionThis has happened to 2 of my systems running bare metal Kali Linux. I upgrade and whenever I boot into the latest Kernel, it just dumps me into a TTY & complains that both Plymouth and Lightdm Service can't be loaded.The workaround for me right now, is to force a lower Kernel version.
I am screwed. I am screwed.u/Golden_Fractal•1 yr. agoI am screwed.Question - Kali GeneralI accidentally installed the iso boot right on my computer and now every time I boot my computer , it shows me the installation menu. Can't boot from a cd, USB, or my installed windows. Any way I can fix this?
Cant login into my own account Cant login into my own accountu/Five_Hustle_Emir•1 yr. agoCant login into my own accountQuestion - Kali GeneralI have to use the old version of kali for some reason but whenever i create an user. It says password or login is incorrect.
GRUB gone after bios update GRUB gone after bios updateu/D3N1S4O•1 yr. agoGRUB gone after bios updateQuestion - Kali GeneralHello, I dualboot windows 11 and kali Linux on two separate hard drives. After a bios update, the computer boots directly to windows. I don't see any other os in the boot menu except windows. I disabled secure boot and still nothing. When I boot from a live usb, I can open my Linux drive and see all my files, so I know it didn't just get deleted. Can someone tell me what to do?
Will KDE ever get the "undercover mode"? Will KDE ever get the "undercover mode"?u/aureliuszeno•1 yr. agoWill KDE ever get the "undercover mode"?Question - Kali GeneralI run kali KDE on my device and I'm super happy with it. However, since i am working from public places and people tend to give me a weird side eye when they see a terminal and the dragon on my screen, I was wondering if the kali-undercover mode will ever be developed for KDE?
From a fresh install. Not really sure how much unreliable is this distribution From a fresh install. Not really sure how much unreliable is this distributionu/Any-Board-6631•1 yr. agoFrom a fresh install. Not really sure how much unreliable is this distributionQuestion - Kali General
Any recommendations for BT 5+ dongles capable of sniffing etc Any recommendations for BT 5+ dongles capable of sniffing etcu/IndigoPill•1 yr. agoAny recommendations for BT 5+ dongles capable of sniffing etcQuestion - Kali GeneralNormally I default to using CSR dongles, but I haven't been able to find any. Many recommendations turned out to be using other chipsets.I just need something 5 or higher that is capable of working with spooftooph, hciconfig etc and preferably natively supported.Any suggestions?I already have a few CSR BT 4.0 dongles but they won't pick up all of my devices.Thank you.
Using KDE on Win-Kex? Using KDE on Win-Kex?u/Hackerhash782•1 yr. agoUsing KDE on Win-Kex?Question - Kali GeneralI'm currently using Windows 11 and have been playing around with Kali Linux through Win-Kex, I like the XFCE interface, though I've used KDE in the past and prefer it more. I've tried installing KDE through commands however I can't seem to figure out how to actually boot into KDE. Is this possible? If so, how would I accomplish this?
Anyone have a decent preseed.cfg file or example to point me to? Anyone have a decent preseed.cfg file or example to point me to?u/macr6•1 yr. agoAnyone have a decent preseed.cfg file or example to point me to?Question - Kali GeneralI'm trying to build out  preseed.cfg file so that I can install to proxmox using packer.  All I need it to do is install kali, just like it does when you take all the defualts but also install and enable ssh, so packer can connect and finish.BTW, is there a site that has all the info you can put in a preseed file?  I've been to the wiki for debian-installer and it only has a tenth of what I found when doing debconf-get-selections --install.
Installation help! Installation help!u/Perrosforlife•1 yr. agoInstallation help!Question - Kali General
Basic Questions Megathread Basic Questions Megathreadu/AutoModerator•1 yr. agoBasic Questions MegathreadMegathreadHere, users who are new to Kali Linux can ask basic questions about it and its functionality and receive assistance regarding potential issues they are facing. Please remember to follow the subreddit rules when asking your questions.Before posting, make sure you have reviewedKali's Documentation, as the answer may be well-documented. Additionally, please refer to the following articles to ensure you ask proper and high-quality questions:How do I ask a good questionHow to ask questions the smart wayThe XY problemDon't ask to askPlease remember that while AI/LLM models like ChatGPT can be useful, they are not a substitute for proper troubleshooting. When seeking assistance, it's important to refer to the documentation of the tool, program, or OS you're using and to use your preferred search engine for further research.This megathread will be posted monthly.
Portable Kali box with Raspberry Pi and Touchscreen Portable Kali box with Raspberry Pi and Touchscreenu/barakadua131•1 yr. agoPortable Kali box with Raspberry Pi and TouchscreenDiscussion
Kali everywhere - TicWatch Pro, OnePlus7 Pro, OnePlus7T Pro and Alfa adapter Kali everywhere - TicWatch Pro, OnePlus7 Pro, OnePlus7T Pro and Alfa adapteru/barakadua131•1 yr. agoKali everywhere - TicWatch Pro, OnePlus7 Pro, OnePlus7T Pro and Alfa adapterDiscussion
Terminal, Files not launching and dark theme not working Terminal, Files not launching and dark theme not workingu/GreatGodO•1 yr. agoTerminal, Files not launching and dark theme not workingQuestion - Kali GeneralYesterday I was updating packages but I cancelled it mid way. I have done this plenty of time but never faced any problem with this. But when I restarted my pc the terminal was not launching but the root terminal is launching fine but the menu bar became transparent. The theme is set to dark but only the wallpaper changes according to theme and everything else is in light theme. When I open files it keeps on prompting that files is not responding or sometimes it just doesn't launch at all. I have tried running the following commands -sudo dpkg --configure -asudo apt install -fsudo apt updatesudo apt upgrade
My custom printed Kali war driving box My custom printed Kali war driving boxu/SecretEntertainer130•1 yr. agoMy custom printed Kali war driving boxDiscussion
Kali NetHunter | OnePlus 7 Pro - OOS10 Troubles Kali NetHunter | OnePlus 7 Pro - OOS10 Troublesu/BLXVCH-BVBY•1 yr. agoKali NetHunter | OnePlus 7 Pro - OOS10 TroublesQuestion - Kali NetHunterHey everyone!I recently bought a OnePlus 7 Pro (GM1917) to root and install NetHunter. After several long days of research, sourcing links to a kernel and files that had been removed from the internet: I managed to get it setup and running.Now I am facing a problem with - sudo apt update && sudo apt full-upgrade -yW: GPG error: http:// http. mirrors. jevincanders .net/kali kali-rolling InRelease: The following signatures were invalid: ED444FF07D8D0BF6 Kali Linux Repository <devel@kali .org>E: The repository 'http://kali .org/kali kali-rolling InRelease' is not signed.N: Updating from such repository can't be done securely, and is therefore disabled by default.N: See apt-secure(8) manpage for repository creation and user configuration details.Now, I have done a lot of research and tried many methods to try and fix this. I tried editing the sources.list to correct repository, I've tried to remove and reinstall the correct GPG Key, I made sure to remove and recreate all directories associated. I manually added the key. I forced Apt to recognize the key.I even used ChatGPT (if that's even any better...) to guide me through it and find the issue. To no avail. I cannot get this to work.I've even wiped and reinstalled OxygenOS10, redid the entire process of twrp, Magisk, kali kernels, and Nethunter install. Still facing the issues.When I open the nethunter App Store I cannot perform any updates or access anything. I get an error "Kali NetHunter App Store was not signed correctly: Signing certificate does not match!"For the files I used:Disable_Dm-Verity_ForceEncrypt_quota_11.02.2020 .zipkernel-nethunter-2021.3-oneplus7-oos-ten .zipMagisk(v23.0) .zipnethunter-2022.4-oneplus7-oos-ten-kalifs-full .ziptwrp-3.4.0-10-guacamole-unified-installer-mauronofrio .ziptwrp-3.4.0-10-guacamole-unified-Q-mauronofrio .imgI humbly ask for help with these issues. I greatly appreciate it! Thank you!
GNOME apps taking too long to load? GNOME apps taking too long to load?u/Velocity_1419D•1 yr. agoGNOME apps taking too long to load?Question - Kali GeneralHello everyone,I have recently run an update and upgrade and rebooted. After rebooting, i noticed that the gnome-terminal, nautilus, and even the calculator and settings apps takes a long time to load, sometimes over a minute or two.oddly enough though, let's use the gnome-terminal for example, i click to open a terminal wait a moment, and it finally loads. then when i want to open another terminal, it's almost instant and i dont need to wait again?not sure if this is the right place to ask, but did something break with GNOME when the new upgrades rolled out?let me know if any more details are required, im more than happy to provide them. here are some details dumped onto you (sorry in advance):> gnome-shellGNOME Shell 47.3> uname -aLinux KALI 6.12.13-amd64 #1 SMP PREEMPT_DYNAMIC Kali 6.12.13-1kali1 (2025-02-11) x86_64 GNU/Linux> cat /etc/os-releasePRETTY_NAME="Kali GNU/Linux Rolling"NAME="Kali GNU/Linux"VERSION_ID="2025.1"VERSION="2025.1"VERSION_CODENAME=kali-rollingID=kaliID_LIKE=debianHOME_URL="https://www.kali.org/"SUPPORT_URL="https://forums.kali.org/"BUG_REPORT_URL="https://bugs.kali.org/"ANSI_COLOR="1;31"> systemctl --user status xdg-desktop-portal.service× xdg-desktop-portal.service - Portal serviceLoaded: loaded (/usr/lib/systemd/user/xdg-desktop-portal.service; static)Active: failed (Result: timeout) since Thu 2025-02-20 09:42:23 AEDT; 2min 9s agoInvocation: 5bb6b675bed44efb8579dd3280b31772Process: 206278 ExecStart=/usr/libexec/xdg-desktop-portal (code=killed, signal=TERM)Main PID: 206278 (code=killed, signal=TERM)Mem peak: 3.6MCPU: 76msFeb 20 09:40:53 KALI systemd[1506]: Starting xdg-desktop-portal.service - Portal service...Feb 20 09:41:43 KALI xdg-desktop-por[206278]: Failed to create settings proxy: Error calling StartServiceByName for org.freedesktop>Feb 20 09:42:08 KALI xdg-desktop-por[206278]: Failed to create file chooser proxy: Error calling StartServiceByName for org.freedes>Feb 20 09:42:08 KALI xdg-desktop-por[206278]: No skeleton to exportFeb 20 09:42:18 KALI xdg-desktop-por[206278]: Failed to create app chooser proxy: Error calling StartServiceByName for org.freedesk>Feb 20 09:42:18 KALI xdg-desktop-por[206278]: No skeleton to exportFeb 20 09:42:23 KALI systemd[1506]: xdg-desktop-portal.service: start operation timed out. Terminating.Feb 20 09:42:23 KALI systemd[1506]: xdg-desktop-portal.service: Failed with result 'timeout'.Feb 20 09:42:23 KALI systemd[1506]: Failed to start xdg-desktop-portal.service - Portal service.
Openvas scan crashes server Openvas scan crashes serveru/ceantuco•1 yr. agoOpenvas scan crashes serverQuestion - Kali GeneralHi,I am not sure if this is the correct place to post this question but I run scans on multiple servers/workstations without issues except one 2019 Server that crashes at approximately at 60%... the server reboots. I ran a scan with Nessus on the same server and it does not crash. is there a way to investigate what is causing the crash? As per Nessus scan, server is not vulnerable.Server runs Veeam backup.Thank you!
Blue team practice home lab Blue team practice home labu/cartwatson•1 yr. agoBlue team practice home labQuestion - Kali PurpleLooking for info/guides on how to setup a home lab to practice blue team tactics.I currently have a proxmox server setup on a thin client (can cluster with a second one for a total of 32gb DDR4, and 12 cores (I think)). Would like to setup some vms or containers that I can use to help my partner practice blue team-ing. They’re fairly adept at Linux and experienced in cyber policy but looking to learn more technical skills.Saw an old thread mention setting up an “AD Lab” on proxmox but the only answer I see online to that is Active Directory and that doesn’t make a lot of sense to me.If this isn’t the right sub, please let me know. New to kali and homelab-ing
Possible issues with Kali + Plasma Possible issues with Kali + Plasmau/benetha619•1 yr. agoPossible issues with Kali + PlasmaQuestion - Kali GeneralIs anyone else having issues with Plasma after runningapt full-upgrade? I've had an installation break that was around for a few months. Yesterday I tried a fresh install in VirtualBox from the stable iso, and after finishing the install I ran the commands to update and full-upgrade. After the upgrade, things seemed to not be working fully, and after reboot Plasma didn't find any applications at all and was effectively bricked. I had changed no settings or installed anything between installing and running full-upgrade.Is this a known issue, or is Plasma's support not great with Kali?
[Help Request] NetHunter Kernel 5.4.271 Issue on Nothing Phone 1 - WiFi Not Working After Bluetooth Fix [Help Request] NetHunter Kernel 5.4.271 Issue on Nothing Phone 1 - WiFi Not Working After Bluetooth Fixu/Beta-02•1 yr. ago[Help Request] NetHunter Kernel 5.4.271 Issue on Nothing Phone 1 - WiFi Not Working After Bluetooth FixQuestion - Kali ARMIntroductionHello everyone! I am trying to configureKali NetHunteronNothing Phone 1, but I am facing several issues with the kernel and compatibility with external WiFi adapters. I have already tested variousWiFi chipsetsand tried compiling specific drivers, but the lack ofheaders for kernel 5.4.271-NetHunteris preventing me from succeeding.I have followed many online guides and read multiple threads onXDA, GitHub, andKali forums, but my main problem is thatWiFi does not work with the suggested kernel, whereas with a workaround, I can have both Bluetooth and WiFi, but with some limitations.Rooting and Kernel FlashingBootloader Unlocking:I unlocked the bootloader, but later faced a device brick issue after attemptingfastboot flashing lock. To recover it, I had torestore the original imagesand leave the bootloader unlocked.Custom Kernel:I tried compiling theNetHunter 5.4.271kernel, but I am missing theheadersrequired for driver compilation. I also testedkimocoder'skernel found on XDA, which helped with some issues but didn’t resolve everything.Bluetooth Fix:Withbitjuggler'skernel fromXDA, I managed to get Bluetooth fully working. Now, I can useBluebinderfor Bluetooth attacks andenable/disable the Bluetooth interfaceto connect external devices (e.g.,Xbox controller, headphones, etc.). However, with this kernel,WiFi does not work at all, which is my main issue.Partial Workaround:If I boot the device using the command:fastboot boot boot.imgwith an image thatdoes not include the kernel suggested in the threads, I canuse both WiFi and Bluetooth. This way, I canperform attacks using wlan0 (internal interface)and connect external devices, butI cannot execute Bluetooth attacks.Issues with External WiFi Adapters and KernelI have tested multipleUSB WiFi adapterscompatible with Kali, but I am facing compilation issues due to the missingheaders for kernel 5.4.271-NetHunter.Tested Dongles and Chipsets:BrosTrend AX900 WiFi 6 (8812au)BrosTrend 1200Mbps Wireless (88x2bu)TP-Link TL-WN722N (8188eus)Every time I try to compile the drivers (e.g., forrtl8188eus), I receive this error:make[1]: *** No rule to make target 'modules'. Stop. make: *** [Makefile:1096: modules] Error 2I tried installing the headers using:sudo apt install linux-headers-$(uname -r)but there are no packages available forkernel 5.4.271-NetHunter.Possible Solutions/Tests ConductedReaching out to XDA/Kali community: I asked for help in the kernel thread on XDA (link), but I haven’t received a response yet.Upgrading to Android 14 + new kernel: I tested an alternative kernel on A14 that supports Bluetooth but does not recognize the internal WiFi card.Using an external WiFi adapter: I am looking for a USB adapter compatible withNetHunterthat works without requiring driver compilation.Questions for the CommunityWhere can I find headers for kernel 5.4.271-NetHunter?Has anyone already solved this issue?Has anyone compiled drivers for 8188eus, 8812au, or 88x2bu for this kernel?If so, could you share them?Is there a better way to get both WiFi and Bluetooth working on Nothing Phone 1 with NetHunter?Which USB adapter do you recommend for NetHunter on Nothing Phone 1 that works without driver compilation?I was considering the Panda PAU05 Nano, as recommended by the Kali forum, but it is very expensive and hard to find.Thanks in advance for any help! Any suggestions are greatly appreciated. :)Useful References:XDA - NetHunter Kernel Nothing Phone 1XDA - Wireless Firmware NetHunterNetHunter Build GuideNothing Kernel RepositoryKali NetHunter Page
Best practices for Kali Linux VM in Azure? Best practices for Kali Linux VM in Azure?u/JahMusicMan•1 yr. agoBest practices for Kali Linux VM in Azure?Question - Kali GeneralI have a Kali VM in Azure that is used to run some penetration tests and also do regular OpenVas scans on some Azure subnets.Currently I have the Kali VM pretty much wide open internally to the other subnets with VMs in order to get a more complete scan and for testing.The Kali VM is locked down so only a few select IPs can access it and via SSH. I believe it is not recommended to install any type of Endpoint protection as it might interfere with the scans.What do organizations do with their penetration testing VMs running Kali? Do they keep them on 24/7 or only turn them ad hoc when they need to perform tests. What about weekly scans of the network? Do they auto start the VM, run the scans and then shut them down?What about for OpenVAS scans?  We have a global network of VMs and client computers that would need to scan the network during our US operation hours and our EU hours,  If it was just US Openvas scans, I would have the VM auto shut off at the end of the day.Any best practices I should follow?  Should I have the VM running for maybe one day for like 24 hours to scan both the US and EU network and then have it shut down for the rest of the week and then do ad hoc penetration scans as needed?
Kali Linux Gnome Wayland (or X11) login background image and style not working. Kali Linux Gnome Wayland (or X11) login background image and style not working.u/YusifAbbaszade•1 yr. agoKali Linux Gnome Wayland (or X11) login background image and style not working.Question - Kali General
"Will Kali Linux Run Smoothly on My System for Dual Boot? Need Advice!" "Will Kali Linux Run Smoothly on My System for Dual Boot? Need Advice!"u/Vegetable_Ad_5802•1 yr. ago"Will Kali Linux Run Smoothly on My System for Dual Boot? Need Advice!"Question - Kali GeneralHey everyone,I currently have Linux Mint installed on my system and want to add Kali Linux for a dual boot setup. My system specs are:CPU:i5 11th Gen (1135G7)RAM:8GBStorage:256GB SSD (currently for Linux Mint) + 1TB HDD for storageMy main concern is whether Kali Linux will run smoothly alongside Linux Mint, given my hardware. I’m not sure if my system is sufficient for Kali, especially considering its focus on penetration testing and security tools.Does anyone here run Kali Linux on similar hardware? How is the performance? Should I expect any issues, and do you have any advice for a smooth dual-boot setup?Thanks for your help!
Network manage “device not ready” Network manage “device not ready”u/RightGuide1611•1 yr. agoNetwork manage “device not ready”Question - Kali ARMI have put kali Linux on the raspberry pi 0 2W pi tail and for whatever reason I can’t connect to the internet with the included internet in the raspberry pi 0 every time I click the internet manager it says “device not ready” It scans my home network aswell and wlan0 pops up but still cannot connect through network manager.
Creating Custom Kali ISO for VMs Creating Custom Kali ISO for VMsu/RealTurtlez•1 yr. agoCreating Custom Kali ISO for VMsQuestion - Kali GeneralHey everyone, I am reaching out to see if any one has any expertise on creating custom Kali ISOs. I have tried follow this guideBuilding Custom Kali ISObut it seems to out of date or I am just doing something completely wrong. I have tried following the guide to the letter but still have errors when I try to boot the ISO. I believe the issue is with the preseed file but I am unsure on how to fix the issue. If someone has done this before and has any tips/tricks to get this done that would be great. Thank you!
Capricious IGPU Capricious IGPUu/Starlight2711•1 yr. agoCapricious IGPUQuestion - Kali GeneralHello, I'm new to this Reddit group and to the Kali Linux operating system. So here's the problem, I installed Kali Linux on my Dell Latitude 7490 which is a laptop and has the following configuration:RAM: 16 GBProcessor: Intel Core I5-8350U (Kabelake-R)IGPU: Intel UHD Graphics 620Laptop model: Dell Latitude 7490It has lived under Windows and Mac (hackintosh) and now it's under Linux.Now for the subtlety, the laptop freezes at the login screen or even in the gdm or GNOME desktop.But when I plug in an external monitor, the computer works normally as if nothing had happened.So, do you have an idea, please.
Kali installer told me i needed to reboot but it’s not showing up in bios Kali installer told me i needed to reboot but it’s not showing up in biosu/DarkCommanderAJ•1 yr. agoKali installer told me i needed to reboot but it’s not showing up in biosQuestion - Kali GeneralOn my third attempt at installing Kali to an old Western Digital 500gb 7.2k hard drive. First two times there was an error installing software so I just skipped it (dumb idea), this time I had to install grub first before installing the software and afterwards it told me to reboot. However it is still not being recognized by my bios (version F4 on a Gigabyte Z490 UD AC-Y1 mobo). The drive is empty and has been wiped by CCleaner and formatted on each attempt at an install. What am I doing wrong?
Broke Kali with my gpu driver update Broke Kali with my gpu driver updateu/CounterChickenUwU•1 yr. agoBroke Kali with my gpu driver updateQuestion - Kali GeneralI use kali life on a USB. I wanted to use my GPU that wasn’t found. I updated withsudo apt update && sudo apt full-upgrade -yAndsudo apt install -y linux-headers-$(uname -r)Then i loaded drivers withsudo apt install -y nvidia-driver nvidia-cuda-toolkitAfter a Reboot the blue text started initializing as normal but after that I have black screen only in the left top corner I have the _ symbol blinking.What can I do now?
None of my wifi adapters can scan anymore? None of my wifi adapters can scan anymore?u/Bruttobrutto•1 yr. agoNone of my wifi adapters can scan anymore?Question - Kali ARMI haven’t been using Kali or cracking wifis in a couple of years. Downloaded Kali as a VM on my M1 mac to see if could crack my own wifi just for fun. I have two wifi adapters that I have used successfully before. TP-Link TL-WN722 v2 and another one without antenna. Both need the same modified driver trick.I had no issues with getting them into monitor mode but they dont find any networks anymore. Some commands come back with adapter doesnt support scanning.I have tried al sorts of things, different tools, killing conflicting processes, restarting the network controllers and so on. Reinstalling the drivers a couple of times. The suddenly wifite worked and was scanning with the smaller wifi adapter. It could see all the networks but was unsuccessful with capturing handshake. I tried again but I can get any of the adapters to scan again. I even repeated the exact command order as when it worked but nothing.I never had issues like this in the past so I am wondering is there something that has changes with the comparability with these adapters or is it just that realtek drivers are shit and i was lucky before?In that case I am open to suggestions on a new wifi adapter that works well for monitor mode and packet injection in 2025. I know there are lists of recommended ones but many of them seem to contain really old adapters like the ones I have or have newer ones that are really expensive. I dont trust a list that includes my crappy ones so I would like to hear a live account of your experiences lately.  If I cant get my existing adapters to work I was thinking about something hassle free for <50usd
no response installing in virtual box. no response installing in virtual box.u/rubberghost333•1 yr. agono response installing in virtual box.Question - Kali Purple
Installing parallels tools for Kali on M1 Mac is killing me! Installing parallels tools for Kali on M1 Mac is killing me!u/Bruttobrutto•1 yr. agoInstalling parallels tools for Kali on M1 Mac is killing me!Question - Kali ARMInstalling parallels tools for Kali on M1 Mac has ALWAYS been a bother. But usually when remounting with exec it works. But now that isn't enough because some read only permission. So I copy the contents of the parallels tools to a folder on the desktop. Change permissions to all files in it to 777. Then I  can run the installer. Done right?NO! I get an error about the linux headers being to new.Parallels version Version 19.0.0 (54570) kali-linux-2024.4-installer-arm64Because of...."religious" reasons I cant update parallels. My "church" is very strict on that.I spent an hour with deepseek trying to rebuild the installer to support it but it didn't work.I figured I could install an older version of Kali, install parallel tools then update. But no.kali-linux-2023.2-installer-arm64, kali-linux-2023.3-installer-arm64, kali-linux-2022.2-installer-arm64 None of these worked, sometimes I got different errors like that I should  install linux-headers-6.1.0-kali-9-arm64 and binfmt-support and dkms and libelf-dev manually. Which neither I or chat gpt managed to do. With some versions I couldn't even get apt-get update to work.What in the world are you supposed to do to make it work?Please help!——— Update for anyone with the same issue (future me included) I eventually managed to get 2023.1 working after various hustling-hassle with renewing signature for apt. Also changed something about the signature being deprecated. Then manually downloading headers and and 2 more dependencies from Kali archives. Install all three deb packages with the same command. Perhaps I did something else and the parallels tools installed!!! Decided to try if it would brake when updating. It seemed fine after one restart then super broken beyond repair with black screen after login. So in conclusion dont do it! Even with the fixes it will eventually fuck up so just forget about it and use virtualbox or something.
Networks showing multiple times in airodump Networks showing multiple times in airodumpu/XJackatakX•1 yr. agoNetworks showing multiple times in airodumpQuestion - Kali GeneralSo I am following a course for ethical hacking and I am attempting the network section. I have a wireless adapter with the correct chip and I have enabled monitor mode.I run airodump-ng and the nearby networks show up, however I have around 4 copies of my home network all with different MAC addresses.I have run the command for each of the MAC addresses and wrote the results to wireshark. But all I get in the source is random MAC addresses and things like tp link. But none of my actual devices show up, I was informed that you should be able to see the make of devices to determine which one my host laptop is.Has anybody run into this problem before?Thank you so much in advance
Anybody know why its not reading my wifi antenna? Anybody know why its not reading my wifi antenna?u/Thick-Humor-4305•1 yr. agoAnybody know why its not reading my wifi antenna?Question - Kali GeneralSo i would have post this on nethunter subreddit but its dead.Im using nethunter and an otg cable and a alfa wifi antenna but nethunter is not detecting the antenna, the light turns green but its supposed to turn blue when its in useI tried the quick commands on the app but it doesnt detect an antenna on wlan0 or wlan1 i even copied a script that searches for the antenna but it says none is detected.Im gonna look into this issue on my own of course and resolve it, but i would apreciate if someone can help me out or guide ne with the issue. thanks in advance, ill be looking at google for a solution in the meantime
Drag&Drop Issue Drag&Drop Issueu/New_Competition_8929•1 yr. agoDrag&Drop IssueQuestion - Kali GeneralI'm crying right now!! I have tried each and every command possible and available on Internet to enable drag and drop, I have already configured my machine to bidirectional still I wasn't working, I saw tonnes of video regarding it, inserted Guest Addition, It didn't work either. Literally I have tried everything. If anyone can help. please help me
Kali Linux premade VM upgrade Kali Linux premade VM upgradeu/Ioan-Andrei•1 yr. agoKali Linux premade VM upgradeQuestion - Kali GeneralHello everybody,I was wondering if there's a way to upgrade the standard VM Kali Linux is offering on their website. I'm trying to give it 4 CPU units because it works rather slowly with only 2 but for some reason all those options are grayed out. I'm using VirtualBox for hypervisor.
Whenever I log in I have to switch on HiDPI Whenever I log in I have to switch on HiDPIu/00roast00•1 yr. agoWhenever I log in I have to switch on HiDPIQuestion - Kali GeneralI've set my resolution and turned on Kali HiDPI but whenever I restart it's turned off again by default and I have to reenable it. Is there something I'm doing wrong?
Missing file kali-arm64 Missing file kali-arm64u/Bougouge•1 yr. agoMissing file kali-arm64Question - Kali NetHunter
AWUS036ACS ALFA help monitor mode AWUS036ACS ALFA help monitor modeu/ThomasTheFourth•1 yr. agoAWUS036ACS ALFA help monitor modeQuestion - Kali GeneralI cannot get monitor mode to work on this adaptor. I've installed drivers successfully, killed the processes that might interfere, and turned on monitor mode. The adaptor reports monitor mode is working, but the name stays  wlan0, and I never see wlan0mon. However I read that not all adaptors change the name so I went ahead with a scan with wlan0 which doesn't report any available networks. Any advice?
Deleting kali partition broke boot loader ? Deleting kali partition broke boot loader ?u/Jackpute•1 yr. agoDeleting kali partition broke boot loader ?Question - Kali GeneralHey yall, Ive potentially made a minor mistake and I could use some help..I was trying to have two OS on the same machine for "fun" so I installed kali on my shitty ideapad3.I deleted two partitions from the drive in windows disk management (the ones with kali installed) after I was done but turns out you cant do that with linux and now my laptop doesnt boot and I only get access to grub rescue which seems to be of no help.I tried repairing my install from grub with set root=() but the boot directory is gone (duh).I tried to access the UEFI but I think its also broken somehow ? When I press f2 before grub takes over I get nothing but a black screen (except if I remove the disk and the I get access to it no problem ?)..Ive tried removing the NVME SSD from the laptop and doing this does give me access to the UEFI but everytime I change my load order and reboot, kali is back on top of my boot list.. Ive tried switching secure boot on too but nothing, everytime I put the SSD back in the non existant Kali install tries to boot first, it is DEMENTED.Ive now connected the NVME SSD to my gaming rig to see if its broken or something but no : everything is here, I can access all my files and windows is still installed on it (see pic below). Meaning deleting the Kali partition broke something in the motherboard or some hardware other than the SSD which frankly scares me.All Im trying to do is make this piece of junk boot into windows instead of the broken Kali install and nothing works as I always end up into grub and I cant even access my UEFI correctly..Any ideas on what to do next ? I dont mind losing all the data thats still on the drive, I just want this thing to boot again.
How to Prevent .sh Scripts from Executing Directly by Double-Click on Desktop in Kali Linux? How to Prevent .sh Scripts from Executing Directly by Double-Click on Desktop in Kali Linux?u/RCEdude101•1 yr. agoHow to Prevent .sh Scripts from Executing Directly by Double-Click on Desktop in Kali Linux?Question - Kali GeneralHi everyone,I'm running Kali Linux with the XFCE desktop environment, and I’ve run into a strange behavior that I’m not sure is related to Kali or XFCE.I created a script file (testscript.sh) and set it as executable.I’ve configured Mousepad as the default application to open #bash scripts by using "Open With".When I place the script in any folder (Thunar) and double-click it on it, it opens in Mousepad (just like it should).However, when I place the same script on the Desktop and double-click it, the script executes directly instead of opening in Mousepad.I like to keep my active scripts on the Desktop for quick access but accidentally double-clicking on them and having them execute directly is a bit dangerous, especially when working on new or experimental scripts.Has anyone experienced this issue before?How can I stop the scripts on my Desktop from executing when I double-click them and ensure they open in Mousepad instead?I’m not sure if this is an issue specific to Kali Linux or if it’s an XFCE thing.Any help or insight would be appreciated
Help with python module installation Help with python module installationu/Helpful_Ad_1759•1 yr. agoHelp with python module installationQuestion - Kali GeneralHi everyone,I'm trying to install a Python module using pipx, but I’m running into an issue. Every time I try to install, I get a "fatal error" message from pip, and the installation fails. Here’s the command I’m using:pipx install (module's name)And here’s the error message I’m seeing:"Fatal error from pip prevented installation........"I’ve tried  upgrading pip, checking Python version.Has anyone encountered this problem before or have any suggestions on how to fix it? Any help would be greatly appreciated!
Won't go into Desktop Won't go into Desktopu/NoVeterinarian6020•1 yr. agoWon't go into DesktopQuestion - Kali PurpleI just installed KALI purple into my SSD and it is running the KDE plasma. I upgraded it and the computer went to sleep.  As soon as I touched my touchpad, i could see a mouse pointer moving but nothing on the screen otherwise. I rebooted into Kali and after logging in it just show the DESKTOP. What do I do?
progressive degeneration of my machine (literally) progressive degeneration of my machine (literally)u/ds7two•1 yr. agoprogressive degeneration of my machine (literally)Question - Kali General(linux 2023, virtual machine) Im kind of new to kali, and im confused abt where my taskbar (the menu that is usually on top) is, so i decided to power the machine off then start it back up again, but it just became worse, the wallpaper changed (used to be linux logo in water), the desktop folders/apps disappeared, the top part came back though, so I decided to restart again, well, the desktop didnt change, the top part only has 1 workspace now and if i open something, i cant close it, and Im not sure if I should restart again, because it has been getting worse each time I do, and uh, I dont know what is happening. (cant show you how it used to look like, never took screenshots)  I would really appreciate if someone could tell me what on earth is going on. It looks/feels like it has been reverted to my first ever time when i opened it. Thanks!
Basic Questions Megathread Basic Questions Megathreadu/AutoModerator•1 yr. agoBasic Questions MegathreadMegathreadHere, users who are new to Kali Linux can ask basic questions about it and its functionality and receive assistance regarding potential issues they are facing. Please remember to follow the subreddit rules when asking your questions.Before posting, make sure you have reviewedKali's Documentation, as the answer may be well-documented. Additionally, please refer to the following articles to ensure you ask proper and high-quality questions:How do I ask a good questionHow to ask questions the smart wayThe XY problemDon't ask to askPlease remember that while AI/LLM models like ChatGPT can be useful, they are not a substitute for proper troubleshooting. When seeking assistance, it's important to refer to the documentation of the tool, program, or OS you're using and to use your preferred search engine for further research.This megathread will be posted monthly.
Need help troubleshooting wifi adapter Need help troubleshooting wifi adapteru/TipIll3652•1 yr. agoNeed help troubleshooting wifi adapterQuestion - Kali GeneralRecently I picked up an Alfa AWUS036ACH wifi adapter, to tinker with in prep for a CTF event I'll be going to with our community college's cybersecurity club. According to Alfa this device is capable of monitor mode. Heck they even go as far as documenting how to install the drivers and use this adapter for Kali on their website. So I know I should have something that can do the job. But after following the documentation (and then uninstalling and reinstalling when that failed), I still can't seem to get this thing to run in monitor mode. Actually runningiw listit doesn't even show that monitor mode is supported, which, according to the manufacturer it should be.Supported interface modes:  		 * IBSS  		 * managed  		 * AP  		 * P2P-client  		 * P2P-GOI was wondering if anyone else has had this issue and how they corrected it, or some possible troubleshooting ideas. Or maybe I just got a bad unit and just need to send it back. I haven't had a chance yet to reach out to the manufacturer, but I should have some free time later today. To clarify, yes I confirmed that this list is for the Afla unit and not my laptop's network.Edit: to be clear the adapter does work, at least in managed mode. As when I would get an error trying to switch to monitor I at least tried to connect to my own wifi which was successful.
USB Persistence to Non-Persistence USB Persistence to Non-Persistenceu/TeaTechnical3807•1 yr. agoUSB Persistence to Non-PersistenceQuestion - Kali GeneralI am trying to set up a state in which I can boot Kali from a USB. I want to set a persistent baseline (maintain OS updates, library updates load certain programs that don't come native with Kali, etc.), but want to use that baseline state in a non-persistent manner. In other words, I want all activity during each session to be non-persistent while maintaining my baseline (with the ability to update my baseline as required).I was able to set up USB persistence, but am not sure how to approach the next step. I would prefer to not have to wipe the USB and reload the image after each use.Yes, I have to boot from a USB for this project.
Kali vm installation on mac Kali vm installation on macu/LovreBro•1 yr. agoKali vm installation on macQuestion - Kali ARM
Virtual Machine Kali Linux and USB WiFi adapter compatability? Virtual Machine Kali Linux and USB WiFi adapter compatability?u/SpiritLongjumping931•1 yr. agoVirtual Machine Kali Linux and USB WiFi adapter compatability?Question - Kali GeneralHey,Recently I have installed Kali Linux on oracle Virtualbox to kind of understand what it is about and what you can do with it. I have understood that tools as Wireshark and nmap are some good stable beginners. Now, what I have understood too, is that making the WiFi adapter go into monitor mode will benefit to it. but after some research it turns out that I can't make mine go into monitor mode because I have the wrong drivers installed. As I'm just a newbie at this, I don't want to mess with the drivers and decided to get a USB WiFi adapter.After some more research, I found the one that might fit the best for me. a cheap Panda PAU06 would do the trick I think. I'm currently using a Intel (R) Wi-Fi 6 AX201 160 MHZ. I really don't want to format my complete device just to be able to have this little trip of information. I'm currently using a Windows 11 laptop. Now I have questions:is the selected adapter suitable for me?is the method I'm currently using (Kali on Virtualbox) acceptable and will it go into monitor mode?are there some specific things I need to look out for (special chipset, benchmarks) if I wanted to purchase it in a solo-owned internet store? If I will be doing that, it will most likely be something different than a Panda.thanks in advance for answering me! If I come up with more questions, I will either edit this post or just post it in the comments.Also, there is no need to reference me tor/masterhackeras I'm quite familiar with the concept of that subreddit and I'm just asking for advice, not hacking tools/programs.edits:I've tried doing iw list (that shows what I can do with wifi cards/adapters) and absolutely nothing shows up. maybe I'm doing something wrong or it shouldn't show up. I've also tried using WSL and than installing Kali, but the same results.What I currently (think) I have achieved is just seeing packets coming and going on wireshark. I saw the IP’s and put them in nmap to find stuff like what their OS is, nothing really special. But I don’t know if those packets are only mine (as I can’t see the usage my phone has (no IP from my phone or any packets send/received towards my phone)) and I think I only see packages sent from and to my laptop, as there is always the same IPv4 and IPv6.
Wanted to boot with Secure Boot | Can't Access MOKManager Wanted to boot with Secure Boot | Can't Access MOKManageru/4ROHIT7•1 yr. agoWanted to boot with Secure Boot | Can't Access MOKManagerQuestion - Kali GeneralContext : I have a laptop with AMD R5, RTX 3050 and 24gigs of RAM. It only has 512 gb ssd, and I wanted to dualboot Windows and Linux. So, I installed the whole linux onto a 32gb pendrive ( not live boot, actual installation ). The setup works perfectly fine. But If I want to boot into Kali, I would have to disable secure boot. Found out that I can boot into Kali with Secure Boot enabled, but have to enroll my key in MOKManager.For that, I installedmokutilandsbsigntools( or something similar, I don't remember correctly).Then generated keys :sudo openssl req -new -newkey rsa:2048 -days 3650 -nodes -x509 -keyout /var/lib/signed_kernel/securekey.priv -out /var/lib/signed_kernel/securekey.x509Then tried signing the bootloader:sudo sbsign --key /var/lib/signed_kernel/securekey.priv --cert /var/lib/signed_kernel/securekey.x509 --output /boot/efi/EFI/kali/grubx64.efi /boot/efi/EFI/kali/grubx64.efiand the kernel modules:sudo mokutil --import /var/lib/signed_kernel/securekey.x509Then finally enrolling the key:sudo mokutil --import /var/lib/signed_kernel/securekey.x509( I did all of these with the help of ChatGPT)After all this, normally, If I go into bios, enable Secure Boot and put Kali as first priority, the MOKManager should pop up, but in my case, it just boots straight into Windows. What am I doing wrong here?
The Kali VM and the Windows host are showing the same MAC address on the network. The Kali VM and the Windows host are showing the same MAC address on the network.u/Fit_Brush925•1 yr. agoThe Kali VM and the Windows host are showing the same MAC address on the network.Question - Kali GeneralI have a Windows host machine running on my system and Kali Linux in a VirtualBox VM. In the VirtualBox settings, I’ve configured the network adapter to be attached to a bridged adapter, and it shows the correct MAC address for the VM.However, when I run a ping test from another device on the same network to the Kali VM's IP and also ping the Windows host’s IP, and then check the ARP cache, I notice that the MAC address shown is the same as the Windows host’s MAC address, not Kali’s.When I check the MAC address directly on Kali, it shows the correct MAC address for the VM, but for some reason, other devices on the network are seeing the Windows host's MAC instead of the Kali VM's MAC address
Help how to solve this problem. Help how to solve this problem.u/LOLOPERA21•1 yr. agoHelp how to solve this problem.Question - Kali NetHunter
Dont understand how to fix this issue Dont understand how to fix this issueu/Akt1343•1 yr. agoDont understand how to fix this issueQuestion - Kali General
Nethunter zip install failed on Nexus 5 (hammerhead)? Nethunter zip install failed on Nexus 5 (hammerhead)?u/j0hn_d0e6•1 yr. agoNethunter zip install failed on Nexus 5 (hammerhead)?Question - Kali NetHunterIn TWRP, whenever I click install the zip file, it just give me invalid zip file format. If using Magisk module method, it also told me failed to unzip. How do I fix this? I am so confused.
Kali Discord down? Kali Discord down?[deleted]•1 yr. agoKali Discord down?Question - Kali GeneralBeen trying to access the Discord for several days. The link on the Reddit sidebar and on the official website just shows a blank webpage that says "OK". Does anyone have a valid invite or is the server down? Thank your/Kalilinux.
Error with pkgsel during installation on M2 silicon chip Error with pkgsel during installation on M2 silicon chipu/Medium-Mysterious•1 yr. agoError with pkgsel during installation on M2 silicon chipQuestion - Kali ARMHey everyone, I get this error when I'm trying to install kali on my m2 mac, I am using UTM here in this case, but the problem persists with VMWare and VirtualBox aswell.And this is what I get from the logs, can someone help me out in fixing this? I'm primarily using UTM, but can switch to something else, here's the log:Jan 24 14:37:00 in-target: Processing was halted because there were too many errors. Jan 24 14:37:00 main-menu[1452]: WARNING **: Configuring 'pkgsel' failed with error code 1 Jan 24 14:37:00 main-menu[1452]: WARNING **: Menu item 'pkgsel' failed. Jan 24 14:37:38 main-menu[1452]: INFO: Modifying debconf priority limit from 'high' to 'medium' Jan 24 14:37:38 debconf: Setting debconf/priority to medium Jan 24 14:37:38 main-menu[1452]: INFO: Falling back to the package description for brltty-udeb Jan 24 14:37:38 depthcharge-tools-installer: Not installing to non-ChromeOS board. Jan 24 14:37:48 main-menu[1452]: INFO: Falling back to the package description for brltty-udeb Jan 24 14:37:48 main-menu[1452]: INFO: Menu item 'save-logs' selected Jan 24 14:37:54 main-menu[1452]: INFO: Falling back to the package description for brltty-udeb Jan 24 14:37:54 depthcharge-tools-installer: Not installing to non-ChromeOS board. Jan 24 14:37:59 main-menu[1452]: INFO: Falling back to the package description for brltty-udeb Jan 24 14:37:59 main-menu[1452]: INFO: Menu item 'save-logs' selected```
ASCII collage I made ASCII collage I madeu/track1-track2•1 yr. agoASCII collage I madeDiscussion
Network Setup Question Network Setup Questionu/Jeter361•1 yr. agoNetwork Setup QuestionQuestion - Kali GeneralMy motherboard has a MediaTek Wi-Fi 6E MT7922 (RZ616) 160MHz Wireless LAN Card. I use Ethernet on my Host computer but would like my Linux Virtual Machine to use the network card to scan for other networks. Is this possible?I don't want my Linux machine to just say "Ethernet Connection" I would like wifi enabled.
AWUS036AXML Issues AWUS036AXML Issuesu/marda417•1 yr. agoAWUS036AXML IssuesQuestion - Kali GeneralHi All,I'm pretty new to this but having issues getting AWUS036AXML running on oracle box. The wifi adaptor appears and can connect to networks which is greathowever, whenever i go to lsusb whilst it's connected it just stalls like this:I try to put it into monitor mode by killing the networkmanager processes first which ends in the same result:I've spent a while googling and can't seem to find much that helps me, i'm currently using Kali 2024.4 and have update the linux kernal using apt-get dist-upgrade with no success. Happy if someone could point me in the right direction to go with this.
Cannot install Seclists for whatever reason  Cannot install Seclists for whatever reasonu/Kvacc01•1 yr. agoCannot install Seclists for whatever reasonQuestion - Kali GeneralSo I've been trying to install seclists for a tryhackme course but for whatever reason, I just cannot get seclists to install onto kali. Ive tried all the install methods fromhttps://kalilinuxtutorials.com/seclists-security-testers/And whenever I use "sudo apt-get install seclists" or just typing "seclists" into the terminal and istalling, I always get "http://http.kali.org/kalikali-rolling/main amd64 seclists all 2024.3-0kali1 404  Not Found [IP:18.211.24.1980]" and "Failed to fetchhttp://http.kali.org/kali/pool/main/s/seclists/seclists_2024.3-0kali1_all.deb404  Not Found [IP: 18.211.24.19]"
Problem with reallocating disk space/Partition space lost due to installation of Kali Linux Problem with reallocating disk space/Partition space lost due to installation of Kali Linuxu/Important_Adagio3824•1 yr. agoProblem with reallocating disk space/Partition space lost due to installation of Kali LinuxQuestion - Kali GeneralHello.  I recently installed Kali Linux on my computer and set up a partition as part of the install.  Later, I deleted Kali from my system, but the disk space I partitioned remains inaccessible.  I'm not sure what to do as I have installed a partition resizer to recover the lost space, but it hasn't worked.  I was wondering if anyone here could help walk me through some steps to reallocate the space on Discord or direct me toward a good tutorial I could follow to solve this issue.  Thanks in advance!
Error Erroru/powroznikGang•1 yr. agoErrorQuestion - Kali ARM
Awus036axml problem  Awus036axml problemu/-datenkraken-•1 yr. agoAwus036axml problemQuestion - Kali GeneralAfter an update I have problems with my awus036axml adapter.If I plug in the adapter then lsusb hangs, kismet server crashes and a reboot also gets stuck.Completely reinstalling didn't help, nor did reloading the latest drivers.Everything worked without any problems until around October.It didn't work either as a live system or with a permanent installation. I haven't tried VM.Do you have any other solutions or tips?
Rog Ally's controls are not working with Kali as main OS Rog Ally's controls are not working with Kali as main OSu/Ordinary-Fig-3281•1 yr. agoRog Ally's controls are not working with Kali as main OSQuestion - Kali GeneralI've been using Kali on my Asus Rog Ally as my main OS for a few months now. Everything works great on it except the game controller thumbsticks and buttons do not work. Is there a certain package that's known to make it work?I've seen people get it working on a Steam Deck but not an Asus Rog Ally yet.
Keyboard and Mouse doesn’t work in Kali. Keyboard and Mouse doesn’t work in Kali.u/LawwEster•1 yr. agoKeyboard and Mouse doesn’t work in Kali.Question - Kali GeneralI just setup my kali linux on my external hard drive, I can now boot on it.The problem is whenever I boot on the hard drive, start kali live and just use kali for what I need, after 2 or 3 minutes the keyboard nor the mouse works.The cpu usage graph still works tho, that means that the screen doesn’t freeze so I guess it is a problem from the keyboard or the mouse?
Been like this for a couple hours Been like this for a couple hoursu/powroznikGang•1 yr. agoBeen like this for a couple hoursQuestion - Kali ARM
Problem booting kali on my pi5 Problem booting kali on my pi5u/george1109•1 yr. agoProblem booting kali on my pi5Question - Kali ARMI am trying to use kali Linux on my pi however it isn’t booting properly. It gets to something called (runonce) then a black screen opens. That’s says things such as [ 242.929377] bcrmf_cfg80211_set_power_mgmt : power save  enabled. I am new to kali so I thought this could just be how it sets up but nothing happened after a few hours.Things I have tried to fix this.I have used the Kali image off of the Kali website as well as the one in the pi imager both have the same problemMy pi can boot Ubuntu and pi os so I don’t think it is a hardware problem.I tried using balena and had the same problem at the same point in the boot.The version of Kali I am trying to download is raspberry pi 5 (64 bit) it is in the arm section on the Kali Linux websiteAny help to get Kali working would be much appreciated. Thx
Can I put Kali Linux in an external 1TB HDD Can I put Kali Linux in an external 1TB HDDu/LawwEster•1 yr. agoCan I put Kali Linux in an external 1TB HDDQuestion - Kali GeneralHello fellow kali linux users, I recently found my old HP Laptop and figured out why not use my external hard drive to boot Kali Linux on it.I have tried using Rufus but the hard drive doesn’t show up on it.Is there any way I could put a live session on the external HDD (idc if it has persistent storage or not).
Cant figure out how to restart dnsmasq Cant figure out how to restart dnsmasqu/deadpanrobo•1 yr. agoCant figure out how to restart dnsmasqQuestion - Kali GeneralIm trying to practice DNS tunneling so I needed to make changes to the configuration file but I cant restart dnsmasq after making changes to its configuration fileWhenever I put the commandsudo systemctl restart dnsmasqIt gives me the errorFailed to restart dnsmasq.service: Unit dnsmasq.service not found.Thank in advance for your help on this!EDIT:usingsudo /etc/init.d/dnsmasq restartDoes not work either
I updated kali with apt-get upgrade and the default kali color scheme just vanished? wut.  I updated kali with apt-get upgrade and the default kali color scheme just vanished? wut.u/Nightblade178•1 yr. agoI updated kali with apt-get upgrade and the default kali color scheme just vanished? wut.Question - Kali General
Am I missing something? Am I missing something?u/lilFrisk3232•1 yr. agoAm I missing something?Question - Kali NetHunterhttps://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/ynigo889yjn34mvypkkb2/Android-Kali-NetHunter-Install-v3.pdf?rlkey=hp7ucm5aba2us5rcgwr92o3pq&e=3&dl=0
Where is the Kali-Dark option of terminal color schema in Kali 2025? Where is the Kali-Dark option of terminal color schema in Kali 2025?u/Bitter-Spray-166•1 yr. agoWhere is the Kali-Dark option of terminal color schema in Kali 2025?Question - Kali GeneralThe Kali-Dark terminal color schema is not exist in kali-linux-2025-W01-vmware-amd64 , I don't like the default terminal color schema in Kali 2025, the color and the background color is too ugly . I want the Kali-Dark terminal color schema.
Why is kcore 127 TB (In WSL2) Why is kcore 127 TB (In WSL2)u/Inf1n1t3_69•1 yr. agoWhy is kcore 127 TB (In WSL2)Question - Kali GeneralSo I was just wandering through the Virtual drive for Kali linux on my Windows PC, I was surprised to see that it's 127 TB and the virtual drive itself 49.8GB (I installed everything), does anyone care to explain?
Kali Linux just won't recognize my wireless adapter. Kali Linux just won't recognize my wireless adapter.u/eurofederalistGR•1 yr. agoKali Linux just won't recognize my wireless adapter.Question - Kali GeneralI bought a TP Link Wireless Adapter, and I'm trying to connect it or however it's called. I've run "iwconfig" but it always says:lo no wireless extensions. eth0 no wireless extensionsEven when I insert the USB to my laptop, I do hear the beep sound, but I don't get a notification that a USB stick has been connected or whatever. Only a beep sound.I have a Huawei Matebook d15 and windows 11 (I know it's old but I hope it's not THAT old)Can anyone help? I'm like, really amateur and don't know much about these stuff
Kali tools changed? Kali tools changed?u/Tuna0x45•1 yr. agoKali tools changed?Question - Kali GeneralHi I updated my Kali a couple weeks back and what ever happened to kerbrute and netexec?! I can’t use? Netexec now gives me some impacket error that I have to constantly fix. And kerbrute is not working I had to re clone it from GitHub.I understand the python env and using those. I’m just curious what happened to all the tools that used to make it so much easier. Now I have to be in the folder where the file is.
Terrible window lag under VMware Terrible window lag under VMwareu/PantherkittySoftware•1 yr. agoTerrible window lag under VMwareQuestion - Kali GeneralI have a new PC with relatively high specs, and I'm gettingterriblewindow performance (from the pre-built VM for VMware) that Ithinkmight be the fault of either the window manager or DE... butmightbe due to an issue with the way the GPU is being handled.When I move the mouse, the pointer is responsive.When I point at a UI element (like a window close gadget), it reacts & animates in a timely mannerTheproblemlies with any action that involvespointing at a UI element, then pressing the left mouse button toactivate/triggerit.For example, if I point at a window edge or titlebar, press & hold the left mouse button, and move the mouse, thepointerinstantly updates to reflect that I'm dragging/resizing, and it moves with reasonable responsiveness... but theactual window move/resize actionlags by what feels like almost an entire second. The pointer moves, the window catches up with it a second later.Likewise, if Iselecta window from the taskbar, the taskbar icon/rectangle animates instantly when I hover over it and click... butactually making the window visible and activetakes about a second.If I click the 'close' button on a window where there's seemingly nothing that needs to be done prior to unceremoniously closing the app... it animates the click-action on the button, but the window itself just sits there lamely for about a second until it finally closes.It'skind oflike the experience of running Linux using VNC over a slow internet connection... except "the little things" (hover animations, etc) still seem to work normally and responsively.I'm running Kali 2024.4 (appliance for VMware) under VMware Workstation Pro (17.6.2). Both were the newest versions, downloaded and installed on Tuesday.Hardware:Ryzen 9900X (Windows 11 running in 'performance' mode, 4 cores/8 threads allocated to vmware)Nvidia RTX 4070Ti Super. Latest Gameready driver.64gb (16gb allocated to vmware)Samsung 990 Pro NVME SSDOther pertinent details:I've tried it both with and without "accelerate 3d graphics" selectedrunning full-screen on3840x2160x24@60fps. Freesync and HDR enabled.Second monitor (also3840x2160x24@60fps. Also Freesync & HDR-enabled). Exists and active for Windows, but not used by VMware or guest.VMware is configured to coexist with HyperV.Idisabledthe side-channel protections in the hope it might help. It didn't.The one major change I made from the stock appliance config was to switch the UI to HiDPI. From what I recall, it was slow evenbeforeI did this (except then, I needed a magnifying glass to read anything on the screen). Regardless, I don't know how to change it back.It occurred to me that I might need to reconfigure the VM to give the guest total ownership (or at least, control) over the videocard when it's running full-screen, and possibly to install Nvidia drivers for the guest... but I don't know how to do this. But as noted, it seems to specifically bewindow-managerperformance that's slow & laggy, notgraphics as a whole.Any ideas?
Kali vbox image keyboard layout Kali vbox image keyboard layoutu/World-war-dwi•1 yr. agoKali vbox image keyboard layoutQuestion - Kali GeneralHello i use the official vbox file for my vms, it was configured with a us keyboard layout. I use an azerty keyboard. Sure, i can change the layout in the system settings but it doesn't apply to anything happening before the login. For example, the 1st time i login (without rebooting) its on qwerty mode, and azerty for the rest. That's already confusing. Qwerty also applies to all prompts coming before that login. How to fix that please ?
Kali VM isn't working as used to due to faliure Kali VM isn't working as used to due to faliureu/MajesticBasket1685•1 yr. agoKali VM isn't working as used to due to faliureQuestion - Kali GeneralHey everyone. I've been struggling with my VM for a while now and I can't really figure out the fixWhen booting up the kali image I see these at the black screen :RETBleed: WARNING: Spectre v2 mitigation leaves CPU vulnerable to RETBleed attacks, data leaks possible!vmwgfx 0000:00:0Z.0 [drm] *ERROR* vmwgfx seems to be running on an unsupported hypervisor. vmwgfx 0000:00:0Z.0 [drm] *ERROR* This configuration is likely broken. vmwgfx 0000:00:0Z.0 [drm] *ERROR* Please switch to a supported graphics device to avoid problems.After this it will give me black screen with there failures :[FAILED] Failed to start lightdm.service Light Display Manager. [FAILED] Failed to start plymouth-quit.service Terminate Plymouth Boot Screen.Note:--> This happened after updating and upgrading the packages of my system .I've ugraded the guest additions to match the version of the current install vbox (7.1.4)Here is the logs of my vbox :https://pastebin.com/3Vv3yMeNIm using vbox onwindows 10host machine and running alinux/kali( 6.11.2-1kali1 ) guest. Im pretty sureHyperVis disabled(I dont see thegreen turtle, Instead it's aV) , Also im usingVMSVGAgraphic .However, I tried to change for other graphics and increase the video memory but nothing seems to work .Additions for the VBOX are installed .Thanks in advance for everyone who takes the time to try and help !!!
Basic Questions Megathread Basic Questions Megathreadu/AutoModerator•1 yr. agoBasic Questions MegathreadMegathreadHere, users who are new to Kali Linux can ask basic questions about it and its functionality and receive assistance regarding potential issues they are facing. Please remember to follow the subreddit rules when asking your questions.Before posting, make sure you have reviewedKali's Documentation, as the answer may be well-documented. Additionally, please refer to the following articles to ensure you ask proper and high-quality questions:How do I ask a good questionHow to ask questions the smart wayThe XY problemDon't ask to askPlease remember that while AI/LLM models like ChatGPT can be useful, they are not a substitute for proper troubleshooting. When seeking assistance, it's important to refer to the documentation of the tool, program, or OS you're using and to use your preferred search engine for further research.This megathread will be posted monthly.
Booting kali in virtual box, there is no errors, what should I do from here? Booting kali in virtual box, there is no errors, what should I do from here?u/Reasonable-Road-2279•1 yr. agoBooting kali in virtual box, there is no errors, what should I do from here?Question - Kali GeneralI have finished this tutorial (without errors):https://www.kali.org/docs/virtualization/install-virtualbox-guest-vm/But it seems it is not booting correctly although I am not getting any errors so I am not sure. What am I looking at now?
Nethunter OnePlus 7 OOS 11 Nethunter OnePlus 7 OOS 11u/TheDouchiestBro•1 yr. agoNethunter OnePlus 7 OOS 11Question - Kali NetHunterI keep getting Qaulcomm CrashDump mode after installing nethunter through the Magisk app.This is what I'm doing:Msmsownload tool to flash Oxygen OS 10Update to 11.0.2OEM unlockfastboot TWRP then flash TWRPflash MagiskReboot to system, root with Magisk appreboot to system (Note: Wont let me flash nethunter via TWRP recovery, directs me to Magisk app)Install Nethunter through Magisk appMost of it works, won't let me install a boot animation though, terminal says /dev/root is read onlyReboot, this is where I hit Qualcomm crashdump modeI can reboot to bootloader, but if I want to hit recovery I have to fastboot boot TWRP.Any advice?I have previously installed Nethunter without issue but I cannot for the life of me remember how I did it or what program I followed. The Get Kali instruction is out of date, it's asking you to boot to Oxygen 10 but the only Nethunter available requires 11.Thank you for your time if you're still reading this.
Ongoing issues using the python3/pip3/pipx to install any python scripts Ongoing issues using the python3/pip3/pipx to install any python scriptsu/AcanthocephalaOk4068•1 yr. agoOngoing issues using the python3/pip3/pipx to install any python scriptsQuestion - Kali GeneralI've been having a lot of trouble recently trying to get my VM to install any python script.Specifically, I was looking at OSINT tools (ositgram, SIGIT, etc.) and they all require python scripts.On the first attempt at a basic install I would get the error code "externally-managed-environment". I looked around and learnt that I had to use pipx for new installs since 2024.Tried that and it would spit out:ERROR: Could not find a version that satifies the requirements xyz (from version: none)ERROR: No matching distrubutions found for xyz.I've tried a few different options including setting up a venv but that leads to the same issues.Any ideas?
[MacBook Pro Silicon] Create a New Virtual Machine Loading Forever [MacBook Pro Silicon] Create a New Virtual Machine Loading Foreveru/dacamposol•1 yr. ago[MacBook Pro Silicon] Create a New Virtual Machine Loading ForeverQuestion - Kali ARMHello everyone!I have VMware Fusion Professional Version 13.6.2 in my MacBook Pro with chip M1 Pro, and I have downloaded the ISO of the Kali Linux 2024.4 ARM version from their website.I have verified that the Checksum is the same than the one they have in the website:❯ sha256sum kali-linux-2024.4-installer-arm64.iso 03308ecd80e25de59f5435858ee677afbcd8b70ed291f00a531941e6bcafe4c7  kali-linux-2024.4-installer-arm64.isoBut for some reason, VMware seems unable to load the ISO and it's stuck forever in the Create a New Virtual Machine step.Does someone know what could be the reason and how to fix this?
extremely slow WiFi? extremely slow WiFi?u/ad_396•1 yr. agoextremely slow WiFi?Question - Kali Generali dual boot kali and windows 11. the internet itself is fine, it works smoothly over WLAN for my windows and my phone, but when i connect Kali through WiFi it's extremely slow, I'm talking kilobytes. any idea how to fix that?
Bare metal install issues Bare metal install issuesu/AcanthocephalaOk4068•1 yr. agoBare metal install issuesQuestion - Kali GeneralI managed to dig up an old laptop that I no longer need and I'm trying just completely wipe the windows partition and use Kali as the only OS.I've seen a lot of options with using a USB to live boot but I"m struggling to find a solution to just have the device as a stand-alone kali system.I know it's a dumb question. Any information or youtube videos on how to do it would be greatly appreciated.
Can Kali live usb be used on a micro sd card? Can Kali live usb be used on a micro sd card?u/Alices-Revenge•1 yr. agoCan Kali live usb be used on a micro sd card?Question - Kali GeneralHello there, I was wondering if I could use my laptops SD card slot to have an installation of Kali since I’m low on storage. I’ve also heard that you can install Kali default targeting a USB or SD card as the location, what is the difference between the live usb and this method?
Wifi monitoring capable USB antennas? Wifi monitoring capable USB antennas?u/StillAlternative5504•1 yr. agoWifi monitoring capable USB antennas?Question - Kali GeneralHello.I m located in Mexico and I'm looking for USB wifi antenna that is capable of monitoring networks. I know how to test if the USB antenna is capable once it's in my possession but I would rather not buy 10 and deal with returns as I find the one.I'm running i7-11 w/ 16gb ram and Kali via Virtualbox. (Fresh install a few hours ago)I am pushing my skills and teach my 13yo about tech as I go. I currently work in med tech so as his interest is peaking and given my profession I am looking at pushing my boundaries.Thanks in advance.
Alpha AWUS036NEH not showing networks by running airodump-ng  Alpha AWUS036NEH not showing networks by running airodump-ngu/eoncire•1 yr. agoAlpha AWUS036NEH not showing networks by running airodump-ngQuestion - Kali GeneralNo networks are shown when scanning with airodump-ng.The device is seen by Kali (VMWare Workstation Passthrough USB) and is set to monitor mode.  I have stopped wap_supplicant and NetworkManager services.wlan0 shows up in monitor mode (wlan0mon).After running sudo airodump-ng wlan0mon this is all i see.  Its not showing any networks, there are several around me at the moment.
Nethunter guys, I need your help with my Pixel 4A PLEASE Nethunter guys, I need your help with my Pixel 4A PLEASEu/BrokenPickle7•1 yr. agoNethunter guys, I need your help with my Pixel 4A PLEASEQuestion - Kali NetHunterEdit: I was able to get it working by using a newer firmware package and running the commands to set the adapters in monitor mode despite them not showing in ifconfig.So I have been trying to get external adapters to work with nethunter for awhile now. I started with my Oneplus 6 and couldn't get it to work so I bought a Pixel 4a which has a tons of support and kernels. I followed the guide for the SpiderBlood kernel by first flashing DFE NEO then wiping /data partition. I then ran the RO2RW script to create a new super partition then flashed it in fastboot. I was then able to gain read/write to all partitions. I then copied all wireless adapter firmwares to /vendor/firmware and /vendor/firmware/wlan (just in case), flashed nethunter then flashed the spiderblood kernel.. wireless adapters (i've tried 3 different chipsets) still don't work. Any guidance would be HIGHLY appreciated!
2025.1 Updates Already? 2025.1 Updates Already?u/mikekachar•1 yr. ago2025.1 Updates Already?Question - Kali GeneralJust curious... Can someone tell me why I'm already seeing 2025.1 updates, when 2024.4 just recently got pushed?I received the kali-system-core, ...firmware, headless, desktop-base, etc, 2025.1.1 updates a couple hours ago...Looks like it was only anapt upgradebut system is still on 2024.4. Do these updates kind of sit in the background until someone is "ready" for thedist-upgradeto take place, or something like that?I'm simply curious...I wasn't expecting to see things listed as 2025 updates so soon.TIA!
What did I do wrong? What did I do wrong?u/Least_Internet•1 yr. agoWhat did I do wrong?Question - Kali Purple
Kali Linux 2024.4 Release (Python 3.12, Goodbye i386, Raspberry Pi Imager & Kali NetHunter) | Kali Linux Blog Kali Linux 2024.4 Release (Python 3.12, Goodbye i386, Raspberry Pi Imager & Kali NetHunter) | Kali Linux Blogu/Arszilla•1 yr. agoKali Linux 2024.4 Release (Python 3.12, Goodbye i386, Raspberry Pi Imager & Kali NetHunter) | Kali Linux BlogRelease Noteshttps://www.kali.org/blog/kali-linux-2024-4-release/
HyperPixel 4.0 driver for Kali 2024.3 for Raspberry Pi (ARM64) HyperPixel 4.0 driver for Kali 2024.3 for Raspberry Pi (ARM64)[deleted]•1 yr. agoHyperPixel 4.0 driver for Kali 2024.3 for Raspberry Pi (ARM64)Discussion
Mouse turned into a "glitchy" box after reboot.  Mouse turned into a "glitchy" box after reboot.u/AcanthocephalaOk4068•1 yr. agoMouse turned into a "glitchy" box after reboot.Question - Kali GeneralBasically as the title says.Shut down the machine (VMware) and then upon opening it again the mouse looked like this. It's still usable, with the top left-ish corner being where the cursor is meant to be.I believe it's some type of graphical issue as the colour of the box does change depending on the actual wallpaper I use, which is strange.Any ideas? Tried updating everything so far but nothings changed it.EDIT FIX: Turns out it was just a bit unstable in the VM window. Used "Adjust Window (Host + A)" and it fixed itself in case anyone else runs into similar problems.
Does anybody know why Burpsuite would throw an error about "Burp browser not available" in Kali Linux? This doesn't happen on MacOS, only on my VM instance of KL. Does anybody know why Burpsuite would throw an error about "Burp browser not available" in Kali Linux? This doesn't happen on MacOS, only on my VM instance of KL.u/rm-rf-npr•1 yr. agoDoes anybody know why Burpsuite would throw an error about "Burp browser not available" in Kali Linux? This doesn't happen on MacOS, only on my VM instance of KL.Question - Kali General
Join our opensource firmware/hardware online "vPub" party - next Thursday! (12th Dec) Join our opensource firmware/hardware online "vPub" party - next Thursday! (12th Dec)u/Mike-Banon1•1 yr. agoJoin our opensource firmware/hardware online "vPub" party - next Thursday! (12th Dec)DiscussionDear Friend, I invite you to a joint ''DUG#8 & vPub 0xD'' event next Thursday:on DUG(5 PM UTC)we will discuss theDasharo distribution of coreboot opensource PC firmware(much better than a typical closed-source UEFI: it provides the hardened security, high quality, cool features and almost-lifetime upgrades!)and explore its new feature: a built-in tiny OS called DTS(Dasharo Tools Suite)on vPub(7 PM UTC)we will be having anOpensource Online Party: with a cozy free-for-all chat about everything opensource firmware/hardware-related, as well as a few planned talks by our peers who would like to share their hard-won in-depth knowledge:how to analyze the proprietary firmware images of AMD boardshow to check if your AMD board is not blocked by Platform Secure Boot from running the opensource firmwarehow to improve the security of your homelab & intranet networks from the low-level anglehow to ensure that your opensource firmware builds are reproducible.Also, you may learn about rare devices that support the opensource firmwares and are hard to stumble upon elsewhereJoin links & full events schedule are available here(both video streams and text chats will be available):DUG#8 & vPub 0xD opensource online Party! - next Thursday
Error when trying to select live boot option Error when trying to select live boot optionu/Omerparator•1 yr. agoError when trying to select live boot optionQuestion - Kali ARM
Kali Linux terminals won't move or resize after upgrade Kali Linux terminals won't move or resize after upgradeu/horror-pickle187•1 yr. agoKali Linux terminals won't move or resize after upgradeQuestion - Kali GeneralWhenever I install kali on my vm or pi. I rdo a sudo update and upgrade. When I reboot and log in, I notice the terminals can't move or be resized, same with my browser. I can type and exit them but that is it. I've tried running the xfwm4  command, the xfwm4 --release, and went into the terminals preferences, and unselected hide windows borders. Nothing works. Can someone please help
Basic Questions Megathread Basic Questions Megathreadu/AutoModerator•1 yr. agoBasic Questions MegathreadMegathreadHere, users who are new to Kali Linux can ask basic questions about it and its functionality and receive assistance regarding potential issues they are facing. Please remember to follow the subreddit rules when asking your questions.Before posting, make sure you have reviewedKali's Documentation, as the answer may be well-documented. Additionally, please refer to the following articles to ensure you ask proper and high-quality questions:How do I ask a good questionHow to ask questions the smart wayThe XY problemDon't ask to askPlease remember that while AI/LLM models like ChatGPT can be useful, they are not a substitute for proper troubleshooting. When seeking assistance, it's important to refer to the documentation of the tool, program, or OS you're using and to use your preferred search engine for further research.This megathread will be posted monthly.
Can i use nethunter lite to use wifi adapter with otg or do i need specific device for full nethunter Can i use nethunter lite to use wifi adapter with otg or do i need specific device for full nethunteru/Pohodovej_Rybar•1 yr. agoCan i use nethunter lite to use wifi adapter with otg or do i need specific device for full nethunterQuestion - Kali ARM
The Ultimate Handheld Hacking Device - My Experience with NetHunter The Ultimate Handheld Hacking Device - My Experience with NetHunteru/andy-codes•1 yr. agoThe Ultimate Handheld Hacking Device - My Experience with NetHunterQuestion - Kali NetHunterhttps://andy.codes/blog/security_articles/2024-11-27-the-ultimate-handheld-hacking-device.html
Is is safe to add an APT update hook for Collation Version: In the PostgreSQL for msf so it updates with my system?  Is is safe to add an APT update hook for Collation Version: In the PostgreSQL for msf so it updates with my system?u/Lux_JoeStar•1 yr. agoIs is safe to add an APT update hook for Collation Version: In the PostgreSQL for msf so it updates with my system?Question - Kali GeneralSo for example, instead of manually having to 'sudo -u postgres psql msf' then running 'ALTER DATABASE msf REFRESH COLLATION VERSION;'Using a hook to do this instead, is this safe to do in this instance or could it mess up my rolling release, just wanted to double check before doing it.CheersEDIT: Damn typo in title, sorry.
Installing a Custom Kali NetHunter Kernel on Xiaomi Redmi 12C: Any Success Stories or Insights?  Installing a Custom Kali NetHunter Kernel on Xiaomi Redmi 12C: Any Success Stories or Insights?u/Beta-02•1 yr. agoInstalling a Custom Kali NetHunter Kernel on Xiaomi Redmi 12C: Any Success Stories or Insights?Question - Kali NetHunterHi everyone,I’m currently using a Xiaomi Redmi 12C, which I’ve rooted using Magisk. I’ve also installed TWRP and Kali NetHunter, and I’m aiming to upgrade to a full NetHunter installation by flashing a modified kernel. I’ve been following the official guide (link here) and plan to use the provided script to build and flash the kernel.The challenge is that, after checking the compatibility list, I realized the Redmi 12C isn’t officially supported. Despite this, I’m determined to see if it’s possible to adapt or port a kernel for my device. I’m willing to tinker and experiment, but I’d love to hear from anyone who might have already attempted this on the Redmi 12C—or on similar Xiaomi devices with unsupported kernels.If anyone has managed to flash a NetHunter kernel on a Redmi 12C, or has any advice on adapting a kernel for an unsupported device, your insights would be invaluable. I’m particularly interested in any resources, tools, or tips that could help me through this process.That said, I’m also being realistic about the limitations of my current device. If I can’t make this work, I’m considering upgrading to a OnePlus 7, as it’s officially supported and has a great track record with Kali NetHunter. Still, I’d prefer to make the most of my Redmi 12C before taking that step.So, has anyone successfully taken on a similar challenge, or does anyone have experience with porting or adapting NetHunter kernels? Any help would be greatly appreciated—thanks in advance!Looking forward to your thoughts and suggestions!
When trying to download chroot for nethunter it says this. When trying to download chroot for nethunter it says this.u/ErrZak64•1 yr. agoWhen trying to download chroot for nethunter it says this.Question - Kali ARM
The Chinese love them some Kali The Chinese love them some Kali[deleted]•1 yr. agoThe Chinese love them some KaliDiscussion
Bluetooth transmission information Bluetooth transmission informationu/Probarium•1 yr. agoBluetooth transmission informationQuestion - Kali GeneralAs I‘m a newb, please allow me to ask for the following:Is it possible to read out what protocols and codecs (or even more detailed information) will be used while you have a BT headphone connected to a pc with kali? It would be also nice to know if you are able to check what protocols / codecs are usable with the connected device. Signal strenght/ quality and a monitoring feature would also be great.Sorry for maybe stupid ir wrong channeled question ✌🏻
Forums Refresh | Kali Linux Blog Forums Refresh | Kali Linux Blogu/Arszilla•1 yr. agoForums Refresh | Kali Linux BlogBlogposthttps://www.kali.org/blog/forums-refresh/
Fresh Encrypted Install Boot Error Fresh Encrypted Install Boot Erroru/lessons_in_detriment•1 yr. agoFresh Encrypted Install Boot ErrorQuestion - Kali GeneralHi all,I performed a fresh install of Kali, ran update & upgrade, installed drivers for the AWUS036ACH.  Activated monitor mode, checked it was working, all good.Reboot the computer and it suddenly doesn't recognize the OS on the drive at all, says insert boot media and press a key.I live boot from USB and its all still sitting there, but there's something wrong with the partition where the Kali installation is.  I try to mount the partition and it fails, dmesg says:[   99.900837] gvfs-udisks2-vo[2128]: segfault at 6e6f006e ip 00007ff321438cd5 sp 00007ffee5bd6360 error 4 in libgio-2.0.so.0.8000.4[7ff3213bd000+11c000] likely on CPU 1 (core 1, socket 0)Help?  I was trying to follow instructions to repair the installation (grub?) but get stuck where this mounting fails.  How do I resolve?  Not Linux savvy.
Flashing Kali to SD for Raspberry Pi 5 Freezes Computer Flashing Kali to SD for Raspberry Pi 5 Freezes Computeru/thundercatdaddy•1 yr. agoFlashing Kali to SD for Raspberry Pi 5 Freezes ComputerQuestion - Kali ARMI have tried different SD cards, different card readers, and pi imager and etcher. They all have the same result of freezing my PC entirely.Has anyone else had this issue and found a fix? I am at my wits end.Update. It wont write regular raspbian OS 64 bit either. Total freeze on that too.
Login Screen Lasts for 1 Frame Login Screen Lasts for 1 Frameu/marmasot•1 yr. agoLogin Screen Lasts for 1 FrameQuestion - Kali GeneralHi all, new to Kali, I use it for school. I've never had this problem with it before. I was using the machine with no issues yesterday, but today when I try to use it the login screen flashes for maybe half a second and then goes to black. Has anyone had this issue before, and does anyone have suggestions?I'm also interested in why this happens, not just the solution. I'm looking to learn as much as I can about linux!System info: VM hosted on Vsphere. 2 CPUs, 4GB memory, 16GB hard disk. Guest OS is specifically Linux 6.11.2-amd64 Kali GNU/Linux Rolling Kali GNU/Linux Rolling 2024.3Typically access remotely via VMware Fusion remote console on a MacBook Air M2. Problem persists if access via the Vsphere terminal window.
Has anyone successfully live boot Kali on Apple Silicon chip (M1/M2/M3)? Has anyone successfully live boot Kali on Apple Silicon chip (M1/M2/M3)?u/Gobbertron•1 yr. agoHas anyone successfully live boot Kali on Apple Silicon chip (M1/M2/M3)?Question - Kali ARMI’ve been trying to boot from a live usb with Kali aarch64/arm64 on my M2 MacBook, but running into some problems.The USB drive seems to flash correctly, using dd or etcher. Formatted as FAT32, and disabled some security settings in security boot utility drive options. But there is no option to boot from the usb in the boot loader. Tried on an M2 and an M3 MacBook.I’ve been able to run Kali in a VM pretty easily, but I’d like to transition to a portable USB for it for a few reasons.It seems this is a pretty common issue but lacking solutions. I’m curious if anyone has successfully booted their Apple silicon Mac from a Kali USB, or if it’s a lost cause to keep investigating.Maybe going with an Asahi live boot and installing Kali arm packages is a better solution?
Unable to load desktop on virtualbox Unable to load desktop on virtualboxu/trollmad3•1 yr. agoUnable to load desktop on virtualboxQuestion - Kali GeneralVideo of the problem:https://streamable.com/py8m79Hello! I am having a weird problem where after logging in on virtualbox, the desktop fails to show. This problem started today, and I did not remove any packages with apt, so I do not know what would cause this to happen. Has anyone here had the same problem?Thank you very much.EDIT: Desktop now works after running rm -r .cache .config .local
Missing UI Elements after full screening Postman Missing UI Elements after full screening Postmanu/gorsas•1 yr. agoMissing UI Elements after full screening PostmanQuestion - Kali General
(MacOS) Setting up Kali on VM problem - no space left on device. (MacOS) Setting up Kali on VM problem - no space left on device.u/More_Committee_5933•1 yr. ago(MacOS) Setting up Kali on VM problem - no space left on device.Question - Kali ARM
Should I be worried after running chkrootkit? Should I be worried after running chkrootkit?u/JekyllnowthenMrHyde•1 yr. agoShould I be worried after running chkrootkit?Question - Kali Generalhttps://imgur.com/MUFysTz
Hey, does anyone have any idea why i keep getting the grub bash prompt, i've installed the iso correctly on many USBs but still no help. Other distros work but not kali. i got an Asus Zenbook Hey, does anyone have any idea why i keep getting the grub bash prompt, i've installed the iso correctly on many USBs but still no help. Other distros work but not kali. i got an Asus Zenbooku/ticticBOOM06•1 yr. agoHey, does anyone have any idea why i keep getting the grub bash prompt, i've installed the iso correctly on many USBs but still no help. Other distros work but not kali. i got an Asus ZenbookQuestion - Kali Generalany info would be appreciated
I need a source for kali purple file mod dates I need a source for kali purple file mod datesu/IvarTheB0nelesss•1 yr. agoI need a source for kali purple file mod datesQuestion - Kali PurpleI am having issues after being personally targeted by a local "oceans 11' style burglars.One was a hacker that has had my devices upside down for over a month. I'm having issues with some extremely insane trojan/worm malware that's persisting across installs and was hit with a dropper too. So God knows what they unleashed. Took out my android phones, elitebook laptops and a desktop. Hijacked my smart home.Anyways.Lynis is showing a ton of different flags, rk hunter is detecting 8 rks. Checkrootk is showing a sniffer but no promisc.I'm finding files modified at dates previous to creation and a lot of mismatched hashes.No baseline to go off of. I got a 99-sysctl.conf that I want to verify the modify date of July 5th 14:15 if someone wouldn't mind. I cannot connect to internet on this pc. It's showing ssh root access is enabled and on windows os, every time I connected to the web it would start dropping the malwares second payload of malware ridden package installers [ms zune video, notepad, and start pushing fake windows updates with UAC permission elevations to access kernel.]So if someone wouldn't mind giving me the modification date of this file please? On a fresh kali purple image of the most recent.
Kali purple sbin/init/ md5sum please Kali purple sbin/init/ md5sum pleaseu/IvarTheB0nelesss•1 yr. agoKali purple sbin/init/ md5sum pleaseQuestion - Kali PurpleCan someone please give me all of rhe md5sums or specifically this one for sbin/init? I'm dealing with a uefi rootkit for 6 weeks and I installed kali purple for more advanced offline tools. But this fking thing hopped to this OS and I'm getting a bunch of flags in rkhunter and one in checkrk for a sniffer.This thing has the behaviors of 5 classifications of malware, and is using traits from not fetya, eternal blue, wannacry, recyclebin worm. This thing is like some sick undetectable hybrid that is spreading through my area right now.
Failed but installed nethunter? Failed but installed nethunter?[deleted]•1 yr. agoFailed but installed nethunter?Question - Kali NetHunter
Basic Questions Megathread Basic Questions Megathreadu/AutoModerator•1 yr. agoBasic Questions MegathreadMegathreadHere, users who are new to Kali Linux can ask basic questions about it and its functionality and receive assistance regarding potential issues they are facing. Please remember to follow the subreddit rules when asking your questions.Before posting, make sure you have reviewedKali's Documentation, as the answer may be well-documented. Additionally, please refer to the following articles to ensure you ask proper and high-quality questions:How do I ask a good questionHow to ask questions the smart wayThe XY problemDon't ask to askPlease remember that while AI/LLM models like ChatGPT can be useful, they are not a substitute for proper troubleshooting. When seeking assistance, it's important to refer to the documentation of the tool, program, or OS you're using and to use your preferred search engine for further research.This megathread will be posted monthly.
kali-everything upgrade blocked because of bug in `humble` dependency kali-everything upgrade blocked because of bug in `humble` dependency[deleted]•1 yr. agokali-everything upgrade blocked because of bug in `humble` dependencyQuestion - Kali GeneralHello everyone, I am working with a fresh install of Kali Linux with "everything" selected for the tool installation. Trying to perform an `apt upgrade && apt ugprade` has resulted in a failure due to a bug within the "humble" dependency, and I am hoping for a way forward.I have tried to comment out the problematic line 981 of `/usr/share/humble/humble.py`, but I do not believe this would ever fix the problem since the package manager is trying to install a newer version, not referencing my local file.Any suggestions on how to move forward?
Kali NOT Upgrading [3] Packages Kali NOT Upgrading [3] Packagesu/mikekachar•1 yr. agoKali NOT Upgrading [3] PackagesQuestion - Kali GeneralHey All +u/steevdave;I had 400+ updates to perform the other day (Tues, 10/29), which were all updates from between Fri, 10/25, thru Mon, 10/28. I totally run updates Mon-Fri, but I had to go out of town for a job on Fri, so I couldn't perform the updates.Anyways, come Tuesday, when I got back home, I went to perform an update and saw that there were 400+ updates that needed to be done... So I did them.However, there was a small handful that didn't want to update for whatever reason. In the past, when Iu/steevdavehad updates that were just being skipped by the system,u/steevdavewould have me just remove the corresponding package & that would be that.I'm thinking that would be the best solution here, however, I don't want to go uninstalling packages if they may be needed for other applications... 🤔The packages that aren't upgrading (which all appear to be library packs) are as follows:libflac12t64libfontconfig1libgif7So, if y'all could gimme your thoughts on the best way I should proceed here (or howYOU'Dproceed here), I'd greatly appreciate ya! Should I:a) Keep the packages installed as-is, in hopes that things will eventually get fixed and that they'lleventuallyupgrade properly.b) Go ahead & just uninstall the three [3] packages & deal with any issues that may arise later on down the road.c) Some other option that's not coming to mind ATM for some reason (tho I feel thereissome kind of 3rd option that Icoulddo).Thoughts??TIA!!
How to get TCPDUMP to capture packets in Virtualbox How to get TCPDUMP to capture packets in Virtualbox[deleted]•1 yr. agoHow to get TCPDUMP to capture packets in VirtualboxQuestion - Kali GeneralI am getting "Not authorized to capture traffic on this interface" messages.Typical Virtualbox with Kali installed trying to capture traffic from the wireless int (ETH0)Please advise.
What's happening? Help me, please What's happening? Help me, pleaseu/Balliolon2•1 yr. agoWhat's happening? Help me, pleaseQuestion - Kali GeneralI try to run both normal and safe mode, It ends to black screen with '_' switch to empty.I think it happen after `sudo apt-get update`
Disable encryption? Disable encryption?[deleted]•1 yr. agoDisable encryption?Question - Kali NetHunterConsidering I just bricked my OnePlus6 I shall now post my question and receive shame lolSo from what I’ve read the OnePlus6 (op6) you have to disable encryption for NetHunter to be installed fully?The way in the official guide was depreciated like 3 years ago, but I did it anyway and it of course gave me the infinite black loading screen.I’ve also read that this happened because my slot a and slot b were deleted or something.Not to mention that I might need to change my op6 partitions to a super partition?To install NetHunter on the op6 these are the steps:unlock bootloader viaflash twrpinstall magiskat this point I’m pretty sure the phone now counts as rooteddisable encryption (and/or add super partition?)something with chroot?something with zygisk?then flash the (or build) NetHunter imgCan anyone provide advice for steps 4/5/6 plz
Best Phones For NetHunter? Best Phones For NetHunter?u/itsyoboi-skinnypen•1 yr. agoBest Phones For NetHunter?Question - Kali NetHunterSo I saw this on the site:The NetHunter GitLab repository contains over 164 kernels for over 65 devices. Kali Linux publishes over 25 images for the most popular devices on the NetHunter download page.In the route of Images, what are the best 3 phones?In terms of kernels, what are the best and easiest phones?
0MB free space for Nethunter?  0MB free space for Nethunter?[deleted]•1 yr. ago0MB free space for Nethunter?Question - Kali NetHunter
How to Organize Kali Linux Applications into Custom Categories in GNOME? How to Organize Kali Linux Applications into Custom Categories in GNOME?[deleted]•1 yr. agoHow to Organize Kali Linux Applications into Custom Categories in GNOME?Question - Kali Generali have all the kali tools mixed up in Gnome app list. I want to somehow put them in respective categories like Information gathering, Exploit development just like we've in xfce. How can i do so?
Thinking of dual booting... Thinking of dual booting...u/aspie_electrician•1 yr. agoThinking of dual booting...Question - Kali General
Will there be a official gsi image of Kali nethunter  Will there be a official gsi image of Kali nethunter[deleted]•1 yr. agoWill there be a official gsi image of Kali nethunterQuestion - Kali NetHunterA gsi image of Kali nethunter would be really good because it can be used with dsu and it would make it even it it's sar no twrp would be needed and any phone with treble support would be able to use it
Kex in Seamless Mode WLS W11 Kex in Seamless Mode WLS W11u/PhotojournalistVast7•1 yr. agoKex in Seamless Mode WLS W11Question - Kali GeneralHey there,I can run Kali in wls with kex in seamless mode but I don't have the Kali menu bar on top (to choose the apps from), I can run any app via the command line but that's not convenient. What am I missing?
Kali boots into KDE then freezes after logon Kali boots into KDE then freezes after logonu/wn1u•1 yr. agoKali boots into KDE then freezes after logonQuestion - Kali ARMI loaded Kali ARM iso into VMWare fusion on a Mac MiniM2. Everything configured properly - but when I enter my password to log in, the screen goes blank. No response to any keystrokes. I can't get into any kind of terminal or GRUB menu - any suggestions? At the end of recovery mode, it says root is locked for some reason.
[Please Help] After the sudo apt upgrade, went to sleep and woke up to entire screen gone, just an underscore flickering on screen [Please Help] After the sudo apt upgrade, went to sleep and woke up to entire screen gone, just an underscore flickering on screenu/Indra_Kamikaze•1 yr. ago[Please Help] After the sudo apt upgrade, went to sleep and woke up to entire screen gone, just an underscore flickering on screenQuestion - Kali GeneralAfter the upgrade, I used the browser for some time, went to sleep with the machine on and woke up to everything gone. No idea what happened.The other partition with the windows is intact.Edit: made a bootable usb stick and run rescue modes sometimes, it worked.
How do I get kali nethunter on my samsung a5 2016? How do I get kali nethunter on my samsung a5 2016?u/MegaDaniel•1 yr. agoHow do I get kali nethunter on my samsung a5 2016?Question - Kali NetHunterI'm trying to build nethunter kernel for my a5 and every time I build it it gets some kind of error but it still outputs the zip file  and I cant get it to install in twrp. I wanna know if there's a guide made for this phone or if there's an already made one. If not could someone guide me through this. Thank you.
GUI Problems (no wallpaper, folders, can't right click, no top bars) GUI Problems (no wallpaper, folders, can't right click, no top bars)u/Striking-Bite-3508•1 yr. agoGUI Problems (no wallpaper, folders, can't right click, no top bars)Question - Kali ARMCan someone help me on this?I downloaded the last Kali Linux for Apple Silicon and installed it on VMware Fusion.After installation everything was ok then, I run the command "sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade" to get everything up to date but after reboot I only get the login screen's wallpapper instead of the main desktop's walpapper, no folders on the desktop screen, can't select anything or do right click and if I open terminal or another folder through the top menu bar, the top tab with the "close, maximize and Minimize" doesn't appear.Already tried to reinstall Kali but this always happens after reboot the system.Host: Macbook M2
WDYM resolv.conf no such file or directory WDYM resolv.conf no such file or directoryu/Pohodovej_Rybar•1 yr. agoWDYM resolv.conf no such file or directoryQuestion - Kali NetHunter
Why can't I use Macchanger on a monitor mode wlan0? (Nethunter 2024.2) Why can't I use Macchanger on a monitor mode wlan0? (Nethunter 2024.2)u/Demolecularizing•1 yr. agoWhy can't I use Macchanger on a monitor mode wlan0? (Nethunter 2024.2)Question - Kali NetHunter
Bruh how did this happen Bruh how did this happen[deleted]•1 yr. agoBruh how did this happenQuestion - Kali ARM
Updated system - there was a kernel update... Updated system - there was a kernel update...u/rivernet1•1 yr. agoUpdated system - there was a kernel update...Question - Kali GeneralNow all I get a blank screen w/ a blinking cursor.Trying to boot into the "Advanced" boots, just gives a list of the same thing...HELP!??!  TIA!
Desktop Background image Issues. Desktop Background image Issues.u/DazaiSTI•1 yr. agoDesktop Background image Issues.Question - Kali ARMHello everyone, I'm new to Kali and I have an Intro to Linux class starting next week, so I've been trying to explore linux and ubuntu more recently. I have this issue where anytime I attempt to change my background it wont let me do it from the settings menu. If I right click the image in its folder, it will apply the image as my background, but it removes the panel from the upper part of the screen. I can choose to re-apply the panel on the screen but upon exit, it won't save my background image. Just hoping someone can point me in the right direction, I've been searching for a solution for a couple days and I haven't found anything. I've attached some pictures showing the issue.Specs: Running UTM on silicon mac, 4gb of ram and 17gb of storage, made sure to update/upgrade kali after install, running virtuo-ramfb as my video card emulator.
Could not find gem 'eventmachine (~> 1.2, >= 1.2.7)' in locally installed gems. Run `bundle install` to install missing gems.  Could not find gem 'eventmachine (~> 1.2, >= 1.2.7)' in locally installed gems. Run `bundle install` to install missing gems.u/Every_Commercial556•1 yr. agoCould not find gem 'eventmachine (~> 1.2, >= 1.2.7)' in locally installed gems. Run `bundle install` to install missing gems.Question - Kali ARMHey , I am trying to install BEEF in Kali, but I get this error. Any idea how to solve it?Could not find gem 'eventmachine (~> 1.2, >= 1.2.7)' in locally installed gems.Run `bundle install` to install missing gems.
Need help fixing unknown error with XFCE/lightdm in Kali, xfwm4 command which could fix it in the past no longer works. Need help fixing unknown error with XFCE/lightdm in Kali, xfwm4 command which could fix it in the past no longer works.u/the-vindicator•1 yr. agoNeed help fixing unknown error with XFCE/lightdm in Kali, xfwm4 command which could fix it in the past no longer works.Question - Kali GeneralHellor/kalilinuxI encountered a strange issue where after what I thought was a normal restart from suspend the desktop environment does not act as intended. I have never been too concerned with customizing the desktop environment before so I'm not too familiar with what is going on. I'm still on Xfce and lightdm.issues include:no minimize buttons on certain windows like the terminal and folders, it does appear for some other things like firefox but I cannot minimize or expand it, only closewindow focus and keyboard entries dont go to the same window: I can click into firefox from a terminal window but any keys enter something new into the terminalI cannot drag or resize the terminal window, it does not start at the top right position so I cannot see the first few characterscertain windows arent displaying the correct options: I have 2 monitors, one landscape and one portrait, in display settings when I try to change the orientation there is only one dropdown option being "none"sometimes the taskbar disappears completelyin the past I have had the same symptoms but the command "xfwm4" would fix it, now the problem persistsnew resolution attempts includedeleting ~/.config/xfce4 and ~/.config/xfce4-session  enabling / pressing ctrl-shift-backspace  sudo service lightdm restart  sudo killall Xorg  xfce4-panel --quit ; pkill xfconfd ; rm -rf ~/.config/xfce4/panel ~/.config/xfce4/xfconf/xfce-perchannel-xml/xfce4-panel.xml ; xfce4-panel;I tried researching this issue and found results for similar problems but they were limited and did not resolve the issue. I tried switching switching to KDE-plasma but somehow botched it with the cursor showing but no login screen, I was able to get XFCE & lightdm back but surprisingly the window and focus issues still remainI have no idea what initially caused this issue. I feel like this could be solved with the right reset command so I want to avoid reseting the image as that would take longer to get back to the same point.double posted in the basic questions megathread in this sub because it doesnt seem like many people use it.Edit - i seem to have resolved it by just running full-update like the singular comment suggested
Any nethunter pros here? Having issues with my oneplus 6 Any nethunter pros here? Having issues with my oneplus 6u/BrokenPickle7•1 yr. agoAny nethunter pros here? Having issues with my oneplus 6Question - Kali NetHunterI rooted my oneplus 6 and installed lineage 18.1, then flashed nethunter from the repo and a custom rom. When I plug external WiFi adapters in and run lsusb I can see the device and I’ve installed the firmware package but it doesn’t show up as an interface. I try to run lsmod but /proc/modules don’t exist. WTF as I doing wrong?
How to built your portable Kali lab with Pi-Tail that is controlled only by your smartphone How to built your portable Kali lab with Pi-Tail that is controlled only by your smartphoneu/barakadua131•1 yr. agoHow to built your portable Kali lab with Pi-Tail that is controlled only by your smartphoneQuestion - Kali Generalhttps://www.mobile-hacker.com/2024/10/04/portable-hacking-lab-control-the-smallest-kali-linux-with-a-smartphone/
Install Nvidia drivers for live boot? Install Nvidia drivers for live boot?u/OpDickSledge•1 yr. agoInstall Nvidia drivers for live boot?Question - Kali GeneralTrying to run Kali live boot with persistence on a USB. I ran through the docs for installing nvidia drivers, which doesn't work. This is expected because it's explicitly stated that their instructions do not support live boot. After installing, Kali always fails to boot after selecting from the grub menu.I'm wondering if anyone has a workaround or has otherwise successfully been able to install the drivers and cuda on a live install?
Help with my storage Help with my storageu/LiteratureNo2826•1 yr. agoHelp with my storageQuestion - Kali NetHunterSo I've tried to install Kali Linux NetHunter rootless on my Android and it began to install and Everything but i didn't check the space that is required so I ran out of it in the middle of the installation and now I don't know how to uninstall whatever it managed to install.Please help my phone is 100% full and i dont know what to do.
Basic Questions Megathread Basic Questions Megathreadu/AutoModerator•1 yr. agoBasic Questions MegathreadMegathreadHere, users who are new to Kali Linux can ask basic questions about it and its functionality and receive assistance regarding potential issues they are facing. Please remember to follow the subreddit rules when asking your questions.Before posting, make sure you have reviewedKali's Documentation, as the answer may be well-documented. Additionally, please refer to the following articles to ensure you ask proper and high-quality questions:How do I ask a good questionHow to ask questions the smart wayThe XY problemDon't ask to askPlease remember that while AI/LLM models like ChatGPT can be useful, they are not a substitute for proper troubleshooting. When seeking assistance, it's important to refer to the documentation of the tool, program, or OS you're using and to use your preferred search engine for further research.This megathread will be posted monthly.
On nethunter root user has no internet access while kali user has it, info in comments On nethunter root user has no internet access while kali user has it, info in comments[deleted]•1 yr. agoOn nethunter root user has no internet access while kali user has it, info in commentsQuestion - Kali NetHunter
Best mobile option? Best mobile option?u/lucidphreak•1 yr. agoBest mobile option?Question - Kali GeneralHowdy.. I am already a frequent/seasoned Kali user on desktop devices. I have installed Nethunter on some super old android devices many years ago but for whatever reason stopped using it (mainly because I already carry an iphone and a ipad) but I am looking into getting back into snooping around while mobile.That being said, there is tons of questions/info about running Nethunter on various phones/tablets but most of what I see is from like 6 or 7 years ago. My eyes suck, so a phone isnt really an option - I want to run Nethunter on something more like a 9 or 10 inch tablet.Is anyone who is past beginner stage using NH on a largeish tablet with good success after a relatively easy install? I am looking for folks who are actually using it - not speculation.Please share the hardware that you are using (again, tablets only)..Thank you!.lp
Nethunter Usb Arsenal not available for Nexus 6? Nethunter Usb Arsenal not available for Nexus 6?u/ErgonomicZero•1 yr. agoNethunter Usb Arsenal not available for Nexus 6?Question - Kali NetHunter
8812au drivers on kalipi 5 8812au drivers on kalipi 5u/jesuschristjasonb•1 yr. ago8812au drivers on kalipi 5Question - Kali ARM
Question about Kali Installation  Question about Kali Installation[deleted]•1 yr. agoQuestion about Kali InstallationQuestion - Kali GeneralHello. I'm starting my career in the field of CS, and I decided to try out Kali. Initially I used Kali on a VM, but my computer is a low-end, old computer, meaning running a VM on another OS (in my case the base OS was windows 10), meant that it got painful to use sometimes.I replaced the Win10 + VM, with a bare metal installation of Kali, and I'm actually enjoying it so far. However, I've read that Kali is unstable, and does not offer the clean slate of a VM needed for some jobs. Should I replace Kali as my base OS with another Linux distribution, and virtualize Kali, or just keep using Kali bare metal style?Edit: Returning to Windows is not a long term option. I HATE Windows 11, and Windows 10 is getting axed in terms of support, so I would rather stay with linux.Edit 2: My current laptop is a 2020 Surface Go 2, with 8GB RAM, an intel M3 CPU, and 128GB SSD.
Kali vs Kali tools Kali vs Kali toolsu/Annihilator-WarHead•1 yr. agoKali vs Kali toolsQuestion - Kali GeneralHi! I'm a master student in cybersecurity and I'm wondering which one do you think woulde be betterInstalling Kali tools on my fedora (main OS) since Kali isn't recommended for daily usesOr Installing Kali (Triple boot in this case since I'm dual booting Fedora/Windows)Or even maybe installing it on a Live USB since my pc is only 256Go ssdAnd thx a lot
Ramping on Kali Linux  Ramping on Kali Linuxu/Electronic-Sky4511•1 yr. agoRamping on Kali LinuxQuestion - Kali GeneralHi, I'm not sure if this is the right place to ask, so feel free to boot this. But I'm a software engineer and I'm just looking to get learning about kali Linux, what it can do and how it's tools work. Is there a ramp project anywhere for it? Some like lab exercises to practice interactively? Interactive tutorials?
Pentesting using TP-Link (Archer T4U Plus)- AC1300 Pentesting using TP-Link (Archer T4U Plus)- AC1300u/spidermangag•1 yr. agoPentesting using TP-Link (Archer T4U Plus)- AC1300Question - Kali GeneralHey guys, I have been looking for wifi adapters that support monitoring mode and packet injection with kali linux. I will either use this adapter on VM or raspberry pi 3B. I want to know if this adapter supports kali linux. The chipset is RTL8812BU on this.amazon lndia link :https://www.amazon.in/TP-Link-Archer-T4U-Plus-AC1300Mbps/dp/B07T3687DF/ref=sr_1_fkmr0_1?dib=eyJ2IjoiMSJ9.pQh9OYj-TeYwaCDN3tUpzKtdoJHzznAqD1Rww1yHPe3fDBirhxrWal3QHFPDuvBX.v-hSF8rKUXz7jmQuloNOoQxaD_5xhULDDQjRs0tHyt0&dib_tag=se&keywords=t4u+plus&qid=1726817198&sr=8-1-fkmr0
Apart from Sherlock, what are the other information gathering tools on kali?  Apart from Sherlock, what are the other information gathering tools on kali?u/Indra_Kamikaze•1 yr. agoApart from Sherlock, what are the other information gathering tools on kali?Question - Kali GeneralI'm trying to find out how much of my digital footprint is visible online and using Sherlock I found my Instagram username on various sites.However I want to try doing it by name as well.
Parallels Users Parallels Usersu/aimfl420•1 yr. agoParallels UsersQuestion - Kali GeneralHello everyone, I hope you guys doing well. I was experiencing lag after rebooting Kali on parallels . Drag windows seems slower and having a delay. It just happens after shutdown/reebot. After the installation it runs smoothly. Anyone experienced the same issue? I have an m3 pro 18gb with parallels pro Thanks
Kali Updates Yesterday vs Today Kali Updates Yesterday vs Todayu/mikekachar•1 yr. agoKali Updates Yesterday vs TodayQuestion - Kali GeneralHas anyone noticed an issue with performing updates this week?I ask because yesterday [Monday, 09/16/2024] I tried to update around 4 or 5pm ET, and was told that everything was up-to-date (even tho I hadn't updated since Thursday or Friday of last week).However today [Tuesday, 09/17/2024], I did an update check and was presented with 1,155 updates available. I performed the updates, begrudgingly, having a feeling thatsomethingwas going to go wrong here, and sure enough, I received asub-process error, code 1(IIRC) during bothapt upgradeas well as duringapt full-upgrade.I went ahead & continued on, then rebooted, and during boot I received an error & could not boot up. I didn't take note of what the error was telling me upon reboot...I just went ahead and rolled back my BTRFS system to my snapshot I madebeforerunningapt upgrade.After rolling back, I'm now back "home", and about to try updating again. Now I'm told there are 1,159 packages that can be upgraded.I also checked the home page of the Kali Linux Bug Tracker, to see if there were any posts that might relate to what I've seen between today + yesterday, but alas...nada.I'm any case, I'm curious as to if anyone else has had a similar experience over the last couple days...?I'll be sure to make [more] detailed notes about any errors/issues I come across during this 2nd attempt at updating/upgrading.Thanks.
Only using a Window manager Only using a Window manageru/KnownUnknown764•1 yr. agoOnly using a Window managerQuestion - Kali GeneralI recently came to know that it is possible to just use a Window Manager instead of the entire desktop environment from a video byMental Outlaw, but i can't seem to find any tutorials on how to, as installing any distro tutorial ends with either installing a DE or Hyprland(I previously used it with arch but I'm not exactly sure what a Wayland Compositor means).
`sudo apt update` returns with an error message about openvpn. `sudo apt update` returns with an error message about openvpn.u/Lt_Mashumaro•1 yr. ago`sudo apt update` returns with an error message about openvpn.Question - Kali GeneralSOLVED!Thanks,u/barry9905.Okay, I installed OpenVPN a while back to do some training with HackTheBox, and it seemed to install correctly but any time I tried to connect to the IP that HTB supplied it either flat out couldn't connect, or it would just refresh over and over trying to connect to the address. I wish I had screenshotted those errors too in the past, but I digress. When using Mint, connecting to the IP address provided by HTB goes off without a hitch, so I know that I'm inputting the command properly.Anyway, so I uninstalled openvpn to do a clean install thinking it might've needed an update, but now I get this weird error when running this command. OpenVPN is uninstalled, so why is it trying to pull from the openvpn website?Footnote: Yes, I'm pretty new to Linux, so most of what is in this terminal is a foreign language. I'm a student in cybersecurity, so I kind of need to learn to use this distro.Also, yes, I tried googling this but I came up empty handed because none of the issues are similar enough to mine. I'm also not sure exactly WHAT to google to try to fix it myself.
Kali Linux 2024.3 Release (Multiple Transitions) Kali Linux 2024.3 Release (Multiple Transitions)u/Arszilla•1 yr. agoKali Linux 2024.3 Release (Multiple Transitions)Release Noteshttps://www.kali.org/blog/kali-linux-2024-3-release/
Kali on iOS using ISH Shell Kali on iOS using ISH Shellu/jonthieboii•1 yr. agoKali on iOS using ISH ShellQuestion - Kali GeneralAs the title suggests I’m looking to install Kali on my Iphone, I saw a few posts with download links but it seems they have been taken down.Anyone know where I can get my hands on a headless Kali version that I can run with ISH?Thank you!
Any idea why this keeps happening? Any idea why this keeps happening?[deleted]•1 yr. agoAny idea why this keeps happening?Question - Kali General
Can't open Session after Fresh Install with KDE GUI Can't open Session after Fresh Install with KDE GUIu/Menzoberanz•1 yr. agoCan't open Session after Fresh Install with KDE GUIQuestion - Kali GeneralHi guys,I can't open a session after a Fresh Install with KDE GUI.  I can enter my password and right after that I got a "kind of" smiley and a gearwheel underneath and I can't do anything else ....  No more mouse cursor or keyboard working.This is a completely new install and I don't know how to fix this.Thanks for your help.
flash nethunter from twrp don't work flash nethunter from twrp don't worku/S3V-N•1 yr. agoflash nethunter from twrp don't workQuestion - Kali NetHunterphone model: samsung s6 edgeandroid version: stock 7.0.0 (nougat)twrp version: twrp-3.3.1-0-zerolte.imgmagisk version: Magisk-v27.0Nethunter version: nethunter-2024.2-zerolte-nougat-kalifs-fullHi everyone, I'm trying to flash nethunter on my s6 edge with twrp but I get this error:(obviously I checked the SHA256sum)now, I did a bit of troubleshooting before asking questions around,installing the version "nethunter-2024.2-zerolte-nougat-kalifs-full" via magisk is fine but it doesn't give stability to the system, it creates dependency problems with the packages.while the "nethunter-2023.4-zerolte-nougat-kalifs-full" version (version 2024.1 gives the same problem as .2) installs correctly via twrp.The official documentation says:-unlocking your device and updating it to stock AOSP or LineageOS (CM). (Check point 2.0 for supported roms).-installing Team Win Recovery Project as a custom recovery.-installing Magisk to root the device.-disabling force encryption may be required if TWRP cannot access the data partition -Once you have a custom recovery, all that remains is to flash the NetHunter installer zip file onto your Android device.and nothing else regarding problems with the installation, I tried to document myself on the forum but kali status gives it as unreachable and in fact it gives me error 502.I really don't know where to turn anymore, I wouldn't want to use the 2023 version because it's outdated for me and it's a compromise that I wouldn't want.I hope someone can help me in any way, thank you very much to everyone in advance for your patience in reading and assistance
Wifite Question? Wifite Question?u/-TheLostOne-•1 yr. agoWifite Question?Question - Kali ARMI’ve had Kali for a little bit and I was running it off of the raspberry pi3B+ with no issues I had recently purchased a raspberry pi5 and now running wifite I don’t get any errors and it seems that everything is running fine, but can’t seem to find any targets in fact it says “0 targets found”as were before on the raspberry pi3 it would pop up a good amount of Wi-Fi targets around me I know it said to be used with a network adapter, but neither time I was using one and could still find targets is it absolutely necessary to use a Wi-Fi adapter now?Sorry in advance of this is a dumb question…
hyper-v quick create gives kali 127gb. how can i reduce it? hyper-v quick create gives kali 127gb. how can i reduce it?u/Omar_2004•1 yr. agohyper-v quick create gives kali 127gb. how can i reduce it?Question - Kali Generali tried setting it up by creating new virtual machine (not quick create) but after booting it gave me a black screen with blinking cursor. changing to generation 2 does not even boot the machine
Basic Questions Megathread Basic Questions Megathreadu/AutoModerator•1 yr. agoBasic Questions MegathreadMegathreadHere, users who are new to Kali Linux can ask basic questions about it and its functionality and receive assistance regarding potential issues they are facing. Please remember to follow the subreddit rules when asking your questions.Before posting, make sure you have reviewedKali's Documentation, as the answer may be well-documented. Additionally, please refer to the following articles to ensure you ask proper and high-quality questions:How do I ask a good questionHow to ask questions the smart wayThe XY problemDon't ask to askPlease remember that while AI/LLM models like ChatGPT can be useful, they are not a substitute for proper troubleshooting. When seeking assistance, it's important to refer to the documentation of the tool, program, or OS you're using and to use your preferred search engine for further research.This megathread will be posted monthly.
Urgent Help Urgent Helpu/Shiv_ansh_st•1 yr. agoUrgent HelpQuestion - Kali GeneralI installed kali linux using the usn installation media method in dual boot with windows 11, followed the tutorials on youtube ( creating separate disk partition and stuff)After the linux installation when the setup prompts a restart, my device boots onto windows and the bootloader menu (showed in the tutorial) never showed. How can I fix this?
Kali Linux VM Workstation 17 PRO Kali Linux VM Workstation 17 PROu/Denis7x•1 yr. agoKali Linux VM Workstation 17 PROQuestion - Kali GeneralHello everyone,I’m experiencing an issue with my Kali Linux setup.I’m running Kali Linux on VMware Workstation Pro 17 with the following resources assigned:Memory:4GBProcessors:4Hard Disk:80GBNetwork Adapter:NATWhile using Kali, my resource usage is as follows:CPU:5%Memory:21%Linux kali 6.8.11-amd64 #1 SMP PREEMPT_DYNAMIC Kali 6.8.11-1kali2 (2024-05-30) x86_64 GNU/LinuxThe problem arises after 4 to 6 hours of use. Kali becomes extremely slow, unresponsive, and laggy, to the point where it’s unusable. I have to restart the VM to get it back to normal.I’m planning to take the OSCP exam, and the last thing I need is my Kali setup becoming unusable during the exam. I’m considering a bare-metal installation of Kali on my second laptop to avoid these issues.For context, my main host is running Windows 11 Pro with the following specs:Processor:i9RAM:32GBTemperature Monitoring:I’m using HWiNFO to monitor temperatures, with CPU temps staying below 50°C and GPU around 40°C, so overheating doesn’t seem to be the issue.Could anyone explain why this is happening and suggest a solution?
Installed Kali on Chromebook, and now the right keyboard section doesnt work at all. Worked fine on ChromeOS. Please help. Installed Kali on Chromebook, and now the right keyboard section doesnt work at all. Worked fine on ChromeOS. Please help.u/stayjuicecom•1 yr. agoInstalled Kali on Chromebook, and now the right keyboard section doesnt work at all. Worked fine on ChromeOS. Please help.Question - Kali General
Kali as maim OS or VM? Kali as maim OS or VM?u/Dramatic-Cause1171•1 yr. agoKali as maim OS or VM?Question - Kali GeneralI'm a Cyber security major and we're now diving deeper in to Linux so I was thinking on getting a cheaper laptop to run it on mostly to help me get more familiar with it maybe. Based on y'all opinions and experiences should I have it as the main OS with maybe Windows on a VM? Should I do the opposite? Dual boot? What do y'all think?
I got a virus by installing kali linux. iso I got a virus by installing kali linux. isou/Tuteloo•1 yr. agoI got a virus by installing kali linux. isoQuestion - Kali General
Raspberry pi zero 2 w performance  Raspberry pi zero 2 w performanceu/grunklestangravfalls•1 yr. agoRaspberry pi zero 2 w performanceQuestion - Kali ARMI’ve started a project to create a wrist bound computer running kali with a touchscreen and small Bluetooth keyboard. I’ve been confusing the Raspberry Pi zero 2 w as I saw it had a dedicated arm image but I don’t know how well Kai runs on it does anyone have any knowledge or insight that would be helpful.Many thanks
Where do you prefer to use Kali?  Where do you prefer to use Kali?u/Alexs1897•1 yr. agoWhere do you prefer to use Kali?DiscussionIfinallygot it to work on my virtual machine on VirtualBox. The one I downloaded from the website didn’t work for whatever reason, so I had to do it more manually.And the virtual image disk doesn’t show up when I try to add it? Sigh. Nobody said this process would be easy, though.The only storage it has right now is the installer because it was the only .iso file. 🥲 well, it works, so whatever I suppose.Do you guys also use virtual box? Or do you use VM? Did you replace your OS with it?
new to kali and got this problem  new to kali and got this problemu/RipInternational4059•1 yr. agonew to kali and got this problemQuestion - Kali Generalso basically i downloaded kali linux and installed it in virtual box, i could configure it but then whenever i try to boot it up i get this screen, any help?
Cant install Nethunter file on Nexus 6p Cant install Nethunter file on Nexus 6pu/alpha_xray_echo_lima•1 yr. agoCant install Nethunter file on Nexus 6pQuestion - Kali NetHunterHi everyone, I am trying to do an install of Kali Nethunter for the first time on my nexus 6p, but im having some trouble.The issue is, whenever I boot into TWRP and transfer the file to the nexus, when I go to install it always stops and says that the file is corrupted. that I have verified the sum of the file and have looked through all of the forums and cant seem to find a reason for this, any help would be greatly appreciated. Thank you 🙏
Why can't I run yersinia -G? Why can't I run yersinia -G?u/NashTheFlash11•2 yr. agoWhy can't I run yersinia -G?Question - Kali GeneralHi there!I was trying to use yersinia while using Kali Linux on VMware but whenever I try and run yersinia -G to enter the graphical interface, I always get the following error:  Hmmm... it seems that you don't have gtk support or Yersinia has been configured with --disable-gtk option... Go and get it!!The version of Kali Linux I am using is 2024.2. I've tried everything as well as going into root in the terminal and reinstalling yersinia but haven't got it to work yet. I'm really new to Linux so I'm really confused.How would I fix this issue (and thanks in advance!)?
Apple silicon - UTM - Kali linux resolution looking bad Apple silicon - UTM - Kali linux resolution looking badu/Senor_Cortez69•2 yr. agoApple silicon - UTM - Kali linux resolution looking badQuestion - Kali ARMI am new to Mac ( M3 pro 14) , After finally installing the kali linux in utm  it looks pretty bad. Pixelated borders of icons and wallpapers. I tried everything from youtube like spice and choosing retina. Someone please help me get the clean and crisp resolution like I had in vbox in windows .
Just joined the club! Just joined the club!u/SEAMOOSETHEGREAT•2 yr. agoJust joined the club!Discussion
Empty .zip Folder Empty .zip Folderu/Weird_Kaleidoscope47•2 yr. agoEmpty .zip FolderQuestion - Kali GeneralI've had to reinstall Kali a few times for VMWare but sometimes the disc image doesn't show up, just empty folders.
Zenmap for Kali Zenmap for Kaliu/Elegabal•2 yr. agoZenmap for KaliQuestion - Kali GeneralAny way to install Zenmap for Kali or is it not supported anymore? Can't install the package
im getting screen tearing on qemu/kvm. how can i fix it? im running on arch linux im getting screen tearing on qemu/kvm. how can i fix it? im running on arch linuxu/Omar_2004•2 yr. agoim getting screen tearing on qemu/kvm. how can i fix it? im running on arch linuxQuestion - Kali Generalhttps://www.linux.org/threads/screen-stuttering-in-virt-manager-vms.32411/the package suggested in this article isnt in kali.https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/QEMU/Guest_graphics_accelerationi tried using 3d acceleration by following the wiki but it didnt work.
How to use my raspberry pi 4 running kali as a remote device to do network attacks and control the pi with my phone? How to use my raspberry pi 4 running kali as a remote device to do network attacks and control the pi with my phone?u/kylmapoiss•2 yr. agoHow to use my raspberry pi 4 running kali as a remote device to do network attacks and control the pi with my phone?Question - Kali ARMFirst I used ssh to control it with my phone but I forgot I need to disable network manager and do a "check kill" command for airckrack-ng suite to work without interruptions and when I do that the ssh disconnects. What are the ways I could control my pi using my phone so I could use aircrack-ng suite without interruptions?
Install Alfa AWUS036ACH Install Alfa AWUS036ACHu/Lip9571•2 yr. agoInstall Alfa AWUS036ACHQuestion - Kali Generalhi all ive had this for a couple of years now when i first got it i installed it fine on an old acer laptop it worked good in monitor mode how ever the laptop was crap so didnt really use it.fast forward tp now and ive got a better to try with a dell one anyways a lot has changed ive installed the latest version of Kali , just Kali no duel boot with windowsdoes anyone have a recent upto date guide how to install this thing and get it in monitor mode so i can use it with airgeddon.this is what i get with lsusb from a fresh install"┌──(root㉿kali)-[~]└─# lsusbBus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hubBus 001 Device 003: ID 046d:c534 Logitech, Inc. Unifying ReceiverBus 001 Device 004: ID 0bda:8812 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. RTL8812AU 802.11a/b/g/n/ac 2T2R DB WLAN AdapterBus 001 Device 005: ID 27c6:538d Shenzhen Goodix Technology Co.,Ltd. FingerPrintBus 001 Device 006: ID 0c45:671e Microdia Integrated_Webcam_HDBus 001 Device 007: ID 0cf3:e009 Qualcomm Atheros CommunicationsBus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0003 Linux Foundation 3.0 root hub┌──(root㉿kali)-[~]anyhelp would be much appreciated as ive tried quite a few different thing from here and google or is it better to just buy a new wifi adapter
What is better  What is betteru/Poltu_Ray•2 yr. agoWhat is betterQuestion - Kali GeneralWhat is better? Installing a tool from github or “sudo apt install” ?
Ubuntu and VM Kali, or VM Ubuntu and Kali in Windows? (read body) Ubuntu and VM Kali, or VM Ubuntu and Kali in Windows? (read body)u/Major_Koala•2 yr. agoUbuntu and VM Kali, or VM Ubuntu and Kali in Windows? (read body)Question - Kali GeneralI am going into Cybersecurity and want to get used to Linux in general by daily driving it, but a lot of tools I use in training are in Kali. I bought a laptop to put Kali on bare metal; though after reading around it seems Kali is a horrible idea to put on bare metal. So, what would be best for me to do? Thanks!
OnePlus 6T OnePlus 6Tu/haknet23x•2 yr. agoOnePlus 6TQuestion - Kali NetHunterI have been trying to install Nethunter on my OnePlus 6T.In the process I have successfully rooted the mobile using Magisk. However, once the phone is rooted I can no longer enter TWRP despite having installed it with its ZIP file. When I then try to flash twrp.img again (the version for my mobile), "QUALCOMM CrashDump Mode" immediately appears on the screen.As I understand it, I can install Nethunter from the Magisk module installer but there should be a way to get TWRP installed too!Of course I have unbricked the phone and tried the same process again but it's still the same...Help me, please!
Help Dual Booting Kali and Pop_OS from seperate SSDs Help Dual Booting Kali and Pop_OS from seperate SSDsu/TruVisionary•2 yr. agoHelp Dual Booting Kali and Pop_OS from seperate SSDsQuestion - Kali GeneralI'm currently using Pop_OS as my daily driver. I recently installed a new SSD to install Kali to bare metal specifically to use the Nvidia drivers and CUDA toolkit. Both drives are encrypted. When I set the default boot order to Linux Boot Manager or Pop_OS first, it will load straight into Pop_OS. When I set it to Kali, it will load GRUB, but won't show the Pop_OS install. I've installed and run os-prober, tried turning on the OS prober in /etc/default/grub, I've run update-grub. Rebooted each time with no change.I ran ls in parted, can anyone see if there's something I'm missing or do I have no choice but to follow the Pop_OS bootloader repair instructions (I'm lacking in available external media atm so if something goes wrong I'm just gonna have to reinstall one or both OSes). Any help at all is appreciated.Error: /dev/mapper/nvme1n1p3_crypt: unrecognised disk label Model: Linux device-mapper (crypt) (dm) Disk /dev/mapper/nvme1n1p3_crypt: 499GB Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B Partition Table: unknown Disk Flags:   Model: Linux device-mapper (linear) (dm) Disk /dev/mapper/ou--dorobou--vg-root: 498GB Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B Partition Table: loop Disk Flags:   Number  Start  End    Size   File system  Flags  1      0.00B  498GB  498GB  ext4   Model: Linux device-mapper (linear) (dm) Disk /dev/mapper/ou--dorobou--vg-swap_1: 1023MB Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B Partition Table: loop Disk Flags:   Number  Start  End     Size    File system     Flags  1      0.00B  1023MB  1023MB  linux-swap(v1)   Model: CT500P3PSSD8 (nvme) Disk /dev/nvme0n1: 500GB Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B Partition Table: gpt Disk Flags:   Number  Start   End     Size   File system  Name  Flags  1      1049kB  538MB   537MB  fat32              boot, esp  2      538MB   1050MB  512MB  ext2  3      1050MB  500GB   499GB   Model: Samsung SSD 990 PRO 1TB (nvme) Disk /dev/nvme1n1: 1000GB Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B Partition Table: gpt Disk Flags:   Number  Start   End     Size    File system     Name     Flags  1      1049kB  538MB   537MB   fat32           primary  boot, esp  2      538MB   4833MB  4295MB  fat32           primary  msftdata  3      4833MB  996GB   991GB  4      996GB   1000GB  4295MB  linux-swap(v1)  primary  swap
How comes Kali ISOs are requested that much? Torrent usage... How comes Kali ISOs are requested that much? Torrent usage...u/ogghi•2 yr. agoHow comes Kali ISOs are requested that much? Torrent usage...Question - Kali GeneralNothing critical, just a question for my understanding:Is Kali requested that much? I have a torrent running (again now) on my tiny home server, and it seems the image is requested a loooot?Anyway Kudos to Kali :)Nice afternoon!
Can someone help me with the ALFA AWUS036ACM wifi adapter. I can't get it to work in my virtualbox. Can someone help me with the ALFA AWUS036ACM wifi adapter. I can't get it to work in my virtualbox.u/kylmapoiss•2 yr. agoCan someone help me with the ALFA AWUS036ACM wifi adapter. I can't get it to work in my virtualbox.Question - Kali GeneralI use the 2024.2 version of kali and 7.0.20 version of virtualbox. I updated the drivers on my windows and also updated the kali os but still the alfa adapter won't show on the iwconfig list. I also tried updating the drivers but I couldn't find any info on the internet that could resolve the issue. I am new to the linux os and seeking for your help to get this running
Can Nvidia drivers even be installed on Kali Live?! Can Nvidia drivers even be installed on Kali Live?![deleted]•2 yr. agoCan Nvidia drivers even be installed on Kali Live?!Question - Kali GeneralI've followed so many tutorials and everything looks like it works until I go to actually check the gpu and it still doesn't show up. I am running the latest version of Kali on a Live USB with persistence enabled. The most recent tutorial im using is telling me to do "sudo update-intramfs -u" which is the first thing that has straight up told me I can't do it because im on a live installation. So that's progress, I guess. Is this even possible? I've been going at it for almost 2 full days now.
Basic Questions Megathread Basic Questions Megathreadu/AutoModerator•2 yr. agoBasic Questions MegathreadMegathreadHere, users who are new to Kali Linux can ask basic questions about it and its functionality and receive assistance regarding potential issues they are facing. Please remember to follow the subreddit rules when asking your questions.Before posting, make sure you have reviewedKali's Documentation, as the answer may be well-documented. Additionally, please refer to the following articles to ensure you ask proper and high-quality questions:How do I ask a good questionHow to ask questions the smart wayThe XY problemDon't ask to askPlease remember that while AI/LLM models like ChatGPT can be useful, they are not a substitute for proper troubleshooting. When seeking assistance, it's important to refer to the documentation of the tool, program, or OS you're using and to use your preferred search engine for further research.This megathread will be posted monthly.
GRUB not loading. Help ! GRUB not loading. Help !u/Paradoxical95•2 yr. agoGRUB not loading. Help !Question - Kali GeneralI recently had to RMA my motherboard and after receiving it today, I put back my SSD (Nvme Crucial) and somehow my PC boots straight into Windows.It skips grub. Now I booted a live USB and tried "fdisk -l" to see if Linux was present or not. It was. Along with it's EFI partition as well.Now running "fdisk -l grep Linux.." also returns that Kali is installed in /dev/nvme0n1p4 and EFI is in /dev/nvme0n1p3I tried running update grub but it says grub not found. Following a few old tutorials, I did mount this n1p4 as /mnt, but I cannot mount n1p3 into /mnt/boot/EFI It says mount point doesn't exist.When I tried to install grub onto either, it said "Cannot find EFI directory". When I mount n1p3 in /boot/efi and then run grub-install for n1p3, it runs and throws 3 warnings saying 1)EFI variables cannot be setup on this system & 2) You'll have to complete the grub setup manually.Given they were warnings I ran update-grub and it did said UEFI entries updated but nothing happened. PC still boots into Windows.I'm new to bootloader/grub etc so please can anyone help me ?Edit - After confirming that it indeed was the missing entry for GRUB in my motherboard BIOS and using the solution as posted byu/karmak0smik, I was able to restore grub using the Boot Repair tool. Thank you !
Kali linux cursor control keys is still in movement even if keyboard left/right arrows button are released Kali linux cursor control keys is still in movement even if keyboard left/right arrows button are releasedu/stathmarxis•2 yr. agoKali linux cursor control keys is still in movement even if keyboard left/right arrows button are releasedQuestion - Kali GeneralWhen I hold down the left or right arrow keys to move my cursor, the cursor moves correctly but if I release the button suddenly, the cursor keeps moving for a little while, as if there is a delay which is kind of frustrating as I can't find the right position.I am using zsh and the latest version of Kali (Kali 2024). Also, I am using Gnome. Maybe it's a Gnome issue? (The VM is not cloud-based so no delays from internet connection; I've also changed the options setting repeat (keys-->speed repeat, keys-->delay) but those are for typing issues not for cursor movement)I have delved into this and I am very close to figuring it out but I need help. I've set these values for Gnome for Numpad keys 2,4,6,8 (which act like arrows when NumLock is disabled). These buttons seem to work properly when holding/releasing. The cursor movement speed is OK and when I release the keys, they immediately stop just like any other distribution. The problem now is how to pass the same values for the classical cursor control keys because those don't work properly.gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.a11y.keyboard mousekeys-max-speed 2000; gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.a11y.keyboard mousekeys-init-delay 20; gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.a11y.keyboard mousekeys-accel-time 2000; gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.a11y.keyboard mousekeys-enable true;  └─$ xset q                   Keyboard Control:   auto repeat:  on    key click percent:  0    LED mask:  00000002   XKB indicators:     00: Caps Lock:   off    01: Num Lock:    on     02: Scroll Lock: off     03: Compose:     off    04: Kana:        off    05: Sleep:       off     06: Suspend:     off    07: Mute:        off    08: Misc:        off     09: Mail:        off    10: Charging:    off    11: Shift Lock:  off     12: Group 2:     off    13: Mouse Keys:  off   auto repeat delay:  600    repeat rate:  31   auto repeating keys:  00ffffffdffffbbf                         fadfffefffedffff                         9fffffffffffffff                         fff7ffffffffffff   bell percent:  50    bell pitch:  400    bell duration:  100 Pointer Control:   acceleration:  2/1    threshold:  4 Screen Saver:   prefer blanking:  yes    allow exposures:  yes   timeout:  0    cycle:  0 Colors:   default colormap:  0x20    BlackPixel:  0x0    WhitePixel:  0xffffff Font Path:   /usr/share/fonts/X11/misc,/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled,/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled,/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1,/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi,/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi,built-ins DPMS (Display Power Management Signaling):   Standby: 0    Suspend: 0    Off: 0   DPMS is Enabled   Monitor is On   gsettings list-recursively org.gnome.desktop.peripherals.keyboard  org.gnome.desktop.peripherals.keyboard delay uint32 500 org.gnome.desktop.peripherals.keyboard numlock-state false org.gnome.desktop.peripherals.keyboard remember-numlock-state true org.gnome.desktop.peripherals.keyboard repeat true org.gnome.desktop.peripherals.keyboard repeat-interval uint32 30
How to install Kali NetHunter on TicWatch Pro 3 How to install Kali NetHunter on TicWatch Pro 3u/barakadua131•2 yr. agoHow to install Kali NetHunter on TicWatch Pro 3Question - Kali NetHunterhttps://www.mobile-hacker.com/2024/07/25/how-to-install-kali-nethunter-on-ticwatch-pro-3/
Kali Linux suddenly gives errors while booting.......worked fine till yesterday.  Kali Linux suddenly gives errors while booting.......worked fine till yesterday.u/ReginaMark•2 yr. agoKali Linux suddenly gives errors while booting.......worked fine till yesterday.Question - Kali General
Modifying Kali-Undercover for dark mode Modifying Kali-Undercover for dark modeu/TruVisionary•2 yr. agoModifying Kali-Undercover for dark modeQuestion - Kali GeneralIs there a way to modify the windows 10 theme used by kali-undercover so that it uses a dark theme instead of the blinding light one?
Kali not getting detected on my dell laptop, but gets detected on Msi laptop Kali not getting detected on my dell laptop, but gets detected on Msi laptopu/Cyb3rH04x•2 yr. agoKali not getting detected on my dell laptop, but gets detected on Msi laptopDiscussionHi all, I installed Kali 2024.2 on my external ssd, but after the installation I could boot into Kali only once, i.e. when I boot into my main Os (internal ssd), then external ssd won't show up in boot menu when i reboot it.I have secure boot and fast boot disabled, and I am using UEFI.This issue was solved when I got to know that I need to make a bootx64.efi file under BOOT directory under /boot/efi/EFI for external ssd to be detected as bootable device by the Boot manager.Now I have one more issue, my external ssd gets detected and boots perfectly on my msi laptop, but it doesn't show up in my dell laptop (it also has UEFI with secure boot and fast boot disabled).I tested the same ssd on two Msi laptops (mine and my friends), it works good on both of them, but it's not working on my dell laptop (it's kinda old, bought around 2016).My plan is to use this ssd on any uefi x64 based pc, but I can't even use it on my own dell laptop.Plz help me solve this issue, or if this is not the correct sub, then plz redirect me to the correct one.Thanks in advance! :)
Curious about desktop kali without a WIFI card Curious about desktop kali without a WIFI cardu/Alices-Revenge•2 yr. agoCurious about desktop kali without a WIFI cardQuestion - Kali GeneralHello all, I have a dell optiplex 7050 SFF, with a decent processor and 16 GB of ram, plus 256 GB ssd and 1 TB HDD. However the desktop only has ethernet networking and does not come with a wifi card, and i do not have an adapter. My question is is it still worth it to try and use Kali on this desktop or will the lack of wifi stunt what I am able to do.
Dark screen after booting Dark screen after bootingu/Finit-Hic-Deus•2 yr. agoDark screen after bootingQuestion - Kali GeneralNot sure what happened. Everything was working fine. It's a separate PC that I've installed Kali on in my lab. When the PC starts, grub loader shows, I select kali with gui and nothing. Screen goes into standby mode and nothing else happens. Any tips please?
Use TicWatch Pro as a Keystroke Injector on the go Use TicWatch Pro as a Keystroke Injector on the gou/barakadua131•2 yr. agoUse TicWatch Pro as a Keystroke Injector on the goQuestion - Kali NetHunterhttps://www.mobile-hacker.com/2024/07/18/ticwatch-pro-as-a-keystroke-injector/
The point of installing grub on a different device than os is…. The point of installing grub on a different device than os is….u/Drjonesxxx-•2 yr. agoThe point of installing grub on a different device than os is….Question - Kali GeneralWhy is this even a question.Just to ruin new people life’s?
Kali install success. Kali install success.u/Starshipfan01•2 yr. agoKali install success.Discussion
Is 80GB really needed for downloading kali in the virtual box? Can I use 30GB?  Is 80GB really needed for downloading kali in the virtual box? Can I use 30GB?u/SkillKiller3010•2 yr. agoIs 80GB really needed for downloading kali in the virtual box? Can I use 30GB?Question - Kali General
Nvidia Drivers not installing though it shows installed Nvidia Drivers not installing though it shows installedu/Paradoxical95•2 yr. agoNvidia Drivers not installing though it shows installedQuestion - Kali GeneralHey all. I'm new to Kali (entering Cybersecurity) but I have some beginner knowledge of Linux as I've used Elementary and Mint.I tried installing Nvidia drivers in Kali for general stability (as I noticed at times video player related things were crashing + I heard that some tools in Kali can utilise the GPU as I have a RTX 3070)I followed thesteps as mentioned hereAfter reaching to this step"sudo apt install -y nvidia-driver nvidia-cuda-toolkit"I did notice the white background screen in the terminal (similar to Kali Tweaks Menu) and just like the documentation, I pressed on OK and rebooted (using reboot -f as mentioned). The problem arised when Kali broke due to this hard reboot. It sent me to the busybox terminal initrmfs something and I found another tutorial to recover Kali ( I knew this recovery was possible from elementary OS) and it did recover but now when I run"nvidia-smi"it  says"NVIDIA-SMI has failed because it couldn't communicate with the NVIDIA driver. Make sure that the latest NVIDIA driver is installed and running."but trying"dkms status"returns"nvidia-current/535.183.01, 6.8.11-amd64, x86_64: installed"Tried running "lspci -s 06:00.0 -v" and it returns"06:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation GA104 [GeForce RTX 3070] (rev a1) (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])Subsystem: ZOTAC International (MCO) Ltd. Device 2617...............Capabilities: <access denied>Kernel driver in use: nouveauKernel modules: nouveau, nvidia_current_drm, nvidia_current*"*This is a bit confusing. What is wrong here? Are the drivers installed or not? How can I fix this?PS: If there's a way to purge/remove all Nvidia related files to start all this process again, I'd do it but do let me know how to purge them properly/safely. I also reinstalled Linux headers but that did nothing it seems.Thanks.
Trouble dual booting Kali Linux and Windows 11 Trouble dual booting Kali Linux and Windows 11u/the4leaves•2 yr. agoTrouble dual booting Kali Linux and Windows 11Question - Kali GeneralI have been struggling with this for multiple days now and have been googling my butt off and I can’t find the root of my problem. I’m trying to dual boot these two OS because I like windows for gaming and want the Kali tools and environment for my college work. I’ve been trying to live boot from a seagate 5gb disk drive since I don’t have a big enough flash drive in hand. Etcher refused to flash to this device no matter what I tried. I tried multiple Kali versions and reinstalled Etcher multiple times. After this I settled for using Rufus, which worked perfectly first try. However here’s the problem I’m currently stuck on. When I boot from the drive something goes wrong and I’m brought to the Grub2 command prompt (not in resuce mode). I have tried multiple things including changing the root to all possible partitions of all available drives, messing with the prefix, and more. All fruitless as Grub seems incapable of finding linux.mod, or anything else that has been suggested for similar issues.
Issues with VNC on Raspberry Pi 5 Issues with VNC on Raspberry Pi 5u/joe_louis2018•2 yr. agoIssues with VNC on Raspberry Pi 5Question - Kali ARMAfter following the official docs on the kali website and a few others for setting up VNC on a Pi in kali. I have not been able to get the service to start without a physical monitor connected at the time of boot. Does anyone know what setting needs to be changed in the pi to get VNC to load without a physical monitor? Thank you.For reference, I tried these below guides.https://medium.com/@elysiumceleste/comprehensive-guide-to-setting-up-x11vnc-on-ubuntu-installation-service-configuration-and-29b5672db147https://www.kali.org/docs/general-use/novnc-kali-in-browser/and googled terms like"enable hdmi graphics rpi 5 no monitor"
Setting up an isolated environment for learning Kali - is Linode a good option? Setting up an isolated environment for learning Kali - is Linode a good option?u/chillmanstr8•2 yr. agoSetting up an isolated environment for learning Kali - is Linode a good option?Question - Kali GeneralI used my whole hard drive to dual boot and while I have enough space, I can’t get any iso to work in VirtualBox. So I thought the cloud would be a good isolated place to test; $5/month per lowest level Linux box.Are there any others out there I should look at?p.s. this is all on a laptop; I have a beastly machine but haven’t used it for months, and I’d have to go digging through storage to find my 2 TB drives I once used for NAS.
Audio issues Audio issuesu/KR9SIS•2 yr. agoAudio issuesQuestion - Kali GeneralI installed Kali around a week ago with it being the first time I ever use Linux and am quite happy with it, there is one issue though.A couple of days ago, I was setting up a zoom call and connected my Bluetooth headphones to my laptop for the first time. After doing that, any audio played by my speakers sounds muffled and tinny, like it does when you're listening to music on a phone, go to a call, and then your music becomes muffled, before it's turned off, so that your phone can focus on the call.I tried fixing this by manually installing Pipewire, it's sub-packages and wire plumber because that's what I found should fix most audio issues not realising it had come with Kali by default.So now my problems are two-fold.My audio is still muffled and tinny.PipeWire is now doubly installed on my laptop and as such doesn't open correctly due to there only being one port for it. When I try to open "pipewire" or "pipewire-pulse" it shows errors when I check journalctl.So now before I factory reset my laptop, which wouldn't be the biggest problem in the world. I'm working whether I can instead remove one instance of PipeWire and fix the muffled audio and as such I'm here to ask for help.Laptop version: Lenovo Yoga 7i (16", 7) Kali version: kali-linux-2024.2-installer-amd.isoThank in advance for all replies.
Rockyou2024 Rockyou2024u/P3n1sD1cK•2 yr. agoRockyou2024Question - Kali GeneralWhen will the wordlist repo be updated with the rockyou2024 list?
Resolvconf broken after using wifite on my new router  Resolvconf broken after using wifite on my new routeru/Junior-Bear-6955•2 yr. agoResolvconf broken after using wifite on my new routerQuestion - Kali Generalapt-get remove --purge resolvconf && apt-get install resolvconfApt -f installApt -f --fix-broken install resolvconfEvery one of these had the rolling errors returned: E: could not get lock /var/lib/dpkg/lock-frontend. It is held by 4130169 (apt) N: be aware that removing the lock file is not a solution and may break your system E: unable to acquire the dpkg front-end lock (/var/lib/dpkg/lock-frontend), is another process using it?I'm assuming in the first message that PID is apt. Would killing that process help or really mess things up. Why am I getting this error and why would wifite cause these types of issues? I've used wifite many times and have never had this happen. My router is a new top of the line ROG with "Ai defense" could that have sent something to stop the attack? I'm assuming that's wildly unlikely.Looking for some help with this issue.Thank you.SOLVED:Wow never forget Occam's Razon. The first thing I did wasservice NetworkManager startBut this is what worked:service NetworkManager restartThen:ifconfig wlan0 up
Some useful Blog posts about NetHunter Some useful Blog posts about NetHunteru/stxonships•2 yr. agoSome useful Blog posts about NetHunterQuestion - Kali NetHunterConsidering the amount of questions this sub reddit gets about NetHunter, here is a list of articles about setting up and configuring NetHunter that may be of use to some people. Please note that IDID NOTwrite them.https://www.mobile-hacker.com/2024/07/04/kali-nethunter-101-your-path-to-mobile-ethical-hacking/
My recent AngryOxide build My recent AngryOxide buildu/Thin-Bobcat-4738•2 yr. agoMy recent AngryOxide buildDiscussion
SHA256 mismatch in image file SHA256 mismatch in image fileu/Hot_Team64•2 yr. agoSHA256 mismatch in image fileQuestion - Kali ARMJust tried downloading the Raspberry Pi image file (img.xz) form kali.org official website. Once downloaded, the archive file would not extract (getting “the file is corrupted” message at the end of decompression process), and upon further investigation - the SHA256 is different than the one on the kali website. I tried downloading the image on two different systems, one in Safari on Mac and the other one on Windows with Edge, both resulting in SHA256 mismatch. What might be the reason?
KALI forum KALI forumu/Erica_vanHelsin•2 yr. agoKALI forumDiscussionHello, Is it just me or the Kali Forum is closed ? I me an no new register possible, therefore no new question/comment possible I have a question about swap and /tmp to be integrated after install Thks !Https://forums.kali.org/registrer.php?Sorry, registration has been disabledNo matter what exit nod I use, no matter what OS, browser I use.
Kali on WSL Kali on WSLu/Dimitar_Mitev•2 yr. agoKali on WSLQuestion - Kali GeneralHi,I think to try Kali on WSL, what's your opinion or previous experience with it. I want to use it for ethical hacking practicing.
Basic Questions Megathread Basic Questions Megathreadu/AutoModerator•2 yr. agoBasic Questions MegathreadMegathreadHere, users who are new to Kali Linux can ask basic questions about it and its functionality and receive assistance regarding potential issues they are facing. Please remember to follow the subreddit rules when asking your questions.Before posting, make sure you have reviewedKali's Documentation, as the answer may be well-documented. Additionally, please refer to the following articles to ensure you ask proper and high-quality questions:How do I ask a good questionHow to ask questions the smart wayThe XY problemDon't ask to askPlease remember that while AI/LLM models like ChatGPT can be useful, they are not a substitute for proper troubleshooting. When seeking assistance, it's important to refer to the documentation of the tool, program, or OS you're using and to use your preferred search engine for further research.This megathread will be posted monthly.
Nethunter Post Installation Info.... Nethunter Post Installation Info....u/catunderthestars•2 yr. agoNethunter Post Installation Info....Question - Kali ARMSo i used the generic arm64 kernel and everything worked fine on my rooted Lenovo M8 Gen 4 (TB-300FU) Tablet.... I was able to get chroot..... Buuuut... it sees all the interfaces just not able to use them in the packages like on the menu bar... i can see em when i lsusb in terminal and iwconfig etc etc but Nethunter isnt able to access them..... Is it because the kernel isnt custom built for said tablet... or idk.... any point in the right direction would be solid cause ive tried many many thing to no fix....
My Little Devil My Little Devil[deleted]•2 yr. agoMy Little DevilDiscussion
Leaving a Kali RDP machine awake on my network Leaving a Kali RDP machine awake on my networku/Striking_Upstairs602•2 yr. agoLeaving a Kali RDP machine awake on my networkQuestion - Kali GeneralI want input how I can safley have a Kali RDP machine alive on my network, or is this stupid ect ect. I'm a new SOC analyst, learning all things cyber and I'll use it for tryhackme or hackthebox ect.My hone network layout is a unifi dream machine, I have 4 Pi4s running Ubuntu server for some homelab stuff and home automation, CCTV setup and some attached storage.I don't have a machine capable of running VMs on my network so I've got a Pi5 running Kali ARM.My intentions is to have the Kali Pi running on its own VLAN serving as a machine I can RDP to at any time utilising my openVPN connection when I'm not at home.Thoughts? Is it stupid? I'd turn it off but to my knowledge my nic doesn't support wake on lan.Thanks
Kali Linux 2024.2 x AWUS036AC Kali Linux 2024.2 x AWUS036ACu/ThisIsRespi•2 yr. agoKali Linux 2024.2 x AWUS036ACQuestion - Kali GeneralHi all,Reaching out for some support, I've been at this for days and seems like nothing is working and maybe hoping I could get some pointers or advise on how to get this running.I've recently purchased anAlfa AWUS036AC (AC1200 USB Wireless Adapter)which contains Dual-Band (2.4GHz & 5GHz).I've watched various videos and surfed through multiple pages on getting the right realtek drivers installed and have it working.Here are the following commands I've executed to have the drivers installed:============Driver Installationsudo apt updatesudo apt upgrade -ysudo apt dist-upgrade -ysudo reboot nowsudo apt updatesudo apt install realtek-rtl88xxau-dkmssudo apt install dkmsgit clone https://github[.]com/aircrack-ng/rtl8812aucd rtl8812au/makesudo  make installlsusbiwconfigThe results are:lsusb - shows it's being detected: "Bus 001 Device 004: ID 0bda:8812 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. RTL8812AU 802.11a/b/g/n/ac 2T2R DB WLAN Adapter"I've even tried it on my laptop where it came up under 'Bus 0002' but still issue persists.iwconfig - shows the following:wlan0     unassociated  ESSID:""  Nickname:"WIFI@REALTEK"Mode:Monitor  Frequency=2.412 GHz  Access Point: Not-AssociatedSensitivity:0/0Retry:off   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:offPower Management:offLink Quality:0  Signal level:0  Noise level:0Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0ip addrr -5: wlan0: <NO-CARRIER,BROADCAST,ALLMULTI,PROMISC,NOTRAILERS,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 2312 qdisc mq state DORMANT group default qlen 1000link/ieee802.11/radiotap ea:54:d6:7a:9a:41 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff permaddr 00:c0:ca:b4:e7:29=========the problemWhen I run 'wifite' nothing is being captured, although when I have the adapter hooked up to my Windows machine and ran via Realtek application, a lot of networks are being captured.When I connect the adapter to Linux, I've noticed the light is no longer flashing (as if it's off) although it's still being detected in Linux.I tried this with both VirtualBox and VMWare, same results on both, I have set the USB to 3.0 and even added a filter to automatically connect the USB (manual or automatic made no difference)I've even added 'Realtek 8812AU Wireless Lan 802. 11ac USB NIC' via Network > Adapter 2 > Attached to: Bridged Adapter. Still made no difference. (In fact it was set back to "Realtek PCIe 2.5GbE Family Controller") after I booted down the VM.Could anybody provide any pointers, what seems to be the issue is that once the wifi adapter is connected to the VM, it disconnects from host machine, lights stop flashing and I'd assume it's no longer working.I will try to find and use an older version of Kali Linux (Potentially 2021.X ver)But in the mean time, would anyone have any pointers as of now, or has anyone tried this with the new Kali Linux version recently?
Compatible WiFi card for laptop? Compatible WiFi card for laptop?u/HalfBakedBeans24•2 yr. agoCompatible WiFi card for laptop?Question - Kali GeneralI have an x200 series laptop and would love to have an "all in one package" instead of toting around my external RaLink, although I readily admit it works great with the 11 DBI antennas.I've found a couple lists of compatible wifi driver with linux but I'm having a devil of a time finding a compatible card that will fit either directly in my WiFi card slot OR the unused WAN slot, possibly with an adapter.
SSSD Removed? SSSD Removed?u/MakoWish•2 yr. agoSSSD Removed?Question - Kali GeneralHey, all! I was just going around installing updates to all the systems I manage, and during some upgrades to two of our Kali boxes, I was greeted with:`sudo: you do not exist in the passwd database`We thankfully have a backdoor account, so I was able to log in and figure out that SSSD is no longer installed and cannot be reinstalled. Looks like SSSD was removed?sssd - Kali Linux Package TrackerWhy was that? My team has several Kali boxes that are (or, were) domain-joined using SSSD. I see `winbind` is still available. Is that now the preferred way to join Kali to a Winblows domain? That would seem bass-ackward to me.Would appreciate some thoughts on this.
Will updating break my system? Will updating break my system?u/Equivalent_Whole_294•2 yr. agoWill updating break my system?Question - Kali GeneralI'm installing kali on a 21yo thinkpad, with no tools or anything, just the base system. If I update it, will kali automatically try to install all its tools and stuff and break my system?
I'm stumped trying to get Kali Linux on my Raspberry pi 4 I'm stumped trying to get Kali Linux on my Raspberry pi 4u/b1naryp0et•2 yr. agoI'm stumped trying to get Kali Linux on my Raspberry pi 4Question - Kali ARMHey all, I'm attempting a Kali Linux headless install on my raspberry pi 4, 8gb ram, but I haven't been successful. Below is what I tried:I got the ARM image from the Kali Linux site,here.I tried flashing it onto a couple SD cards using both Balena etcher and the raspberry pi imager. Balena etcher always says that it failed to write it onto the SD card. Pi imager apparently allows the write.I insert the SD card into the pi and power it on, but I don't see the pi on my network. Again, I've tried 2 different SD cards, each of which has no issue with having Raspian OS etched on them.I've ruled out that this is an ethernet issue because my network recognizes the pi when it has raspian OS installed on it.I'm Totally Stumped and would seriously appreciate any help or advice!
My interface won't show up My interface won't show upu/theusrnmisalreadytkn•2 yr. agoMy interface won't show upQuestion - Kali GeneralHashcat wasn't recognizing my GPU so I got a tutorial from a dude on youtube (https://youtu.be/Xm7wAVNewkA?si=gqrUwAN0wicaXpG5), after following the steps and rebooting the system it won't load the interface anymore. Already tried everything from purging nvidia* and reinstalling all drivers from deactivating nouveau and such.
Failed to create swap space Failed to create swap spaceu/Equivalent_Whole_294•2 yr. agoFailed to create swap spaceQuestion - Kali GeneralHi, I have an IBM thinkpad t42, and decided to install kali as it offers a 32 bit image. So far so good, until I got to the partitioning of the disk. I went through everything, chose guided (use entire disk), but I got this Error:The creation of swap space in partition #5 of SCSII (0,0,0) (sda) failed.There was no explanation, and I ran the installer multiple times, but the error persisted. Could you guys please help?
GRUB not showing up, not even in UEFI. GRUB not showing up, not even in UEFI.u/Humbujgej•2 yr. agoGRUB not showing up, not even in UEFI.Question - Kali GeneralI'm trying to install Kali on a Lenovo Yoga and even though the system and GRUB seem to be properly installed (I tried both by using a live GRUB USB stick), when I start the machine, Windows Boot Manager pops up. I checked the UEFI but the option for GRUB wasn't even there. I can't find a way to add it either. Also tried the bcdedit /set {bootmgr} command from Windows too, but it doesn't seem to work, even though it said the command was executed successfully.Here is the pastebin:pastebinHelp is appreciated.
Kali crashes when Alfa network adapter is removed.  Kali crashes when Alfa network adapter is removed.u/Silentwarrior•2 yr. agoKali crashes when Alfa network adapter is removed.Question - Kali GeneralI bought a new Alfa AWUS036ACS to replace one of my old network adapters. I have a clean install of the latest Kali. I have updated all the drivers/headers, you name it. The adapter works perfectly EXCEPT when I remove the adapter from the USB port. Then Kali entirely freezes requiring a hard shut down. It doesn’t matter what mode the adapter is in, it doesn’t matter what status NetworkManager is in. Processes running or no processes running, when it comes out of the USB port, it’s game over. I haven’t been able to find any documentation on this error. Does anyone have any advice? I’m sure it’s user error, I’m just missing something.
Wifi only works after ethernet is connected Wifi only works after ethernet is connectedu/Skottis•2 yr. agoWifi only works after ethernet is connectedQuestion - Kali GeneralIm having a strange problem with my AC 8260 wifi-card. Its hardblocked in rfkill untill I connect ethernet for a brief second and then its unblocked untill I reboot the system. To clarify i only have the cable connected for a second then I unplug it and the network still works untill reboot.I'm at a loss for how to even approach this problem so sorry for the lack of information.edit: Forgot to say it's baremetal
Why are networks around me are not shown? Why are networks around me are not shown?u/Aditya_sanap•2 yr. agoWhy are networks around me are not shown?Question - Kali General
Kali linux REALLY slow on VirtualBox Kali linux REALLY slow on VirtualBoxu/MetalCactuar•2 yr. agoKali linux REALLY slow on VirtualBoxQuestion - Kali GeneralHi Reddit!So i've been using Kali for a while in virtualbox but i just got a new pc and now i'm using Kali in virtualbox. and is unbelievably slow. It can't possibly the hardware as i've giving it 8 cores (my pc has 12 cores / 24 threads) and 8GB RAM (32GB host) but basic things like running firefox and a terminal at the same time just lags like crazy and it's doing my head in.Anyone else having this problem or has fixed it?Thanks in advance
Trouble with Alfa AWUS036ACH Adapter Trouble with Alfa AWUS036ACH Adapteru/Need4Carz•2 yr. agoTrouble with Alfa AWUS036ACH AdapterQuestion - Kali GeneralSee title. I've gotten the drivers working, several times over actually. The issue I'm having is it is capturing no network traffic, and seeing nothing even when not in monitor mode. I also notice that it's got no MAC address auto-assigned to it, or standard. No idea what's going on, any help is appreciated.
Kali 6.8.11 Upgrade Issues Kali 6.8.11 Upgrade Issuesu/mikekachar•2 yr. agoKali 6.8.11 Upgrade IssuesDiscussionNot looking for any "in-depth" conversations here about this, but more just an inquiry as to whether or not there are [many] others having issues upgrading the Kali headers/image to v6.8.11?I was away from my PC since Friday, 06/07, & haven't been able to do any updates (I typically run daily). Just got back home tonight (Tues, 06/10, around 11pm), checked for updates, & had ~120, inc. the header/image updates.Everything else seems to go okay, 'cept for those. Had to roll back my BTRFS Kali instance after rebooting made me realize the upgrade to 6.8.11 didn't go smoothly. Iwouldlike to acknowledge that, lately, the header updates HAVE been going smoothly.Anyways, just curious if others out there are experiencing issues, or if it's maybe just me(?).TIA.
Dedicated portable box Dedicated portable boxu/Thin-Bobcat-4738•2 yr. agoDedicated portable boxDiscussion
Need help kali NH rootless Need help kali NH rootlessu/Odd-Interview-3987•2 yr. agoNeed help kali NH rootlessQuestion - Kali NetHunter
Internal keyboard ignored on LUKS FDE prompt Internal keyboard ignored on LUKS FDE promptu/camo885•2 yr. agoInternal keyboard ignored on LUKS FDE promptQuestion - Kali GeneralInstalled Kali with LUKS on the full disk, used the basic install. Done this several times before but not on this machine. Internal keyboard works on GRUB menu. Once I boot Kali and it goes to LUKS password screen, I can QUICKLY type one or two characters before the screen stops responding.Thought it was keyboard at first. Then realized it works on GRUB menu and lights up when I try to type into LUKS password prompt.Then I noticed on another boot I can actually get one or two characters to input before the machine stops responding.Then I realized it might be the screen not responding, but even after carefully typing full password and entering, screen does not change and Kali does not boot.Boots fine if LUKS not enabled. Also loaded into a live USB OS to see if I could change the order in which modules were loaded (ie keyboard before encrypt in mkinitcpio.conf). But couldn't figure out how to mount that file system.My next steps are trying Ubuntu with LUKS just to see if it's a Kali-specific issue. Could also be hardware. New to me Dell machine. Didn't see anything glaring in the BIOS. Any other tips??EDIT:Posted this across several subreddits in hopes of getting an answer quickly. Hardware is Dell Inc. Latitude 7490/0DJ6MJ, BIOS 1.37.0 01/29/2024. Reading dmesg logs shows an 1915 0000:00:02.0: 0X00000080 [drm]ERRORFault errors on pipe A: 0x00000080[ 1915 cut here /----- 0000:00:02.0: drm_ HARN_ON((val & (1 << 30)) == 0) WARNING: CPU: 3 PID: 238 at drivers/gpu/drm/1915/display/intel_cdclk.c: Modules linked in: snd_hda_codec_hdmi snd_ctl_led snd_hda_codec_realtek intel cstate dellSmmhumon intel_rapl_msr videodev snd_hudep processo crct10dif_pcimul crc32c_intel e1000e 12c_smbus crct10dif_common rtsx_p CPU: 3 PID: 238 Comm: kworker/3:2 Not tainted 6.6.15-amd64 #1 Kali 6.6
Kali Linux 2024.2 Release (t64, GNOME 46 & Community Packages) Kali Linux 2024.2 Release (t64, GNOME 46 & Community Packages)u/Arszilla•2 yr. agoKali Linux 2024.2 Release (t64, GNOME 46 & Community Packages)Release Noteshttps://www.kali.org/blog/kali-linux-2024-2-release/
Raspberry Pi 5 Active Cooler not running on Kali Linux Raspberry Pi 5 Active Cooler not running on Kali Linuxu/Bootleg6786•2 yr. agoRaspberry Pi 5 Active Cooler not running on Kali LinuxQuestion - Kali ARMI have installed Kali Linux on my Raspberry Pi 5, on which I have mounted the official active cooler, but then I noticed the board was quite hot as the fan had not been running and I hadn’t noticed. Is there a way to make the fan work with Kali Linux?
How can i make use of my gpu in kali How can i make use of my gpu in kaliu/esendk808•2 yr. agoHow can i make use of my gpu in kaliQuestion - Kali Generalmy hp pavilion g6 has a radeon hd gpu a but i dont know how to make it work instead of intel hd graphics. No device manager on kali like windows, so i cant reach the hardware? can u guys help
Wondering if Kali Linux on a VM is able to interact with anything other then myself? Wondering if Kali Linux on a VM is able to interact with anything other then myself?u/BraindeadYetFocused•2 yr. agoWondering if Kali Linux on a VM is able to interact with anything other then myself?Question - Kali GeneralI'm using Kali Linux on a VM. When I sniff for internet traffic, the only traffic I get is what I do through that VM. Is there a way to listen for anything outside the VM? I have promiscuous mode on and have even turned on monitor mode but still no luck. I'm new at this stuff and I know the VM is keeping me from screwing anything up but I'd like to at least be able to listen to what's going on in my own network. Thanks
Basic Questions Megathread Basic Questions Megathreadu/AutoModerator•2 yr. agoBasic Questions MegathreadMegathreadHere, users who are new to Kali Linux can ask basic questions about it and its functionality and receive assistance regarding potential issues they are facing. Please remember to follow the subreddit rules when asking your questions.Before posting, make sure you have reviewedKali's Documentation, as the answer may be well-documented. Additionally, please refer to the following articles to ensure you ask proper and high-quality questions:How do I ask a good questionHow to ask questions the smart wayThe XY problemDon't ask to askPlease remember that while AI/LLM models like ChatGPT can be useful, they are not a substitute for proper troubleshooting. When seeking assistance, it's important to refer to the documentation of the tool, program, or OS you're using and to use your preferred search engine for further research.This megathread will be posted monthly.
Kali terminal sometimes suddenly freezes and I am unable to access any open tabs  Kali terminal sometimes suddenly freezes and I am unable to access any open tabsu/General_Riju•2 yr. agoKali terminal sometimes suddenly freezes and I am unable to access any open tabsQuestion - Kali GeneralBut I can create new tabs and close the terminal itself along with minimizing it. But if I minimize it then it cannot be opened again. Even the other running programs can not be accessed by clicking them on the kali taskbar. I logged out and logging back in I found the tabs are gone only one is open with a previously used command.
Should I upgrade the machine? I use Kali pre-built snapshot from official Kali website Should I upgrade the machine? I use Kali pre-built snapshot from official Kali websiteu/itaypro2•2 yr. agoShould I upgrade the machine? I use Kali pre-built snapshot from official Kali websiteQuestion - Kali General
Auto-Suggestion Not Working On Some Users - Kali Linux Auto-Suggestion Not Working On Some Users - Kali Linuxu/MasterYocheese•2 yr. agoAuto-Suggestion Not Working On Some Users - Kali LinuxQuestion - Kali GeneralAy guysJust a quick question. I've been having this problem that had me on edge for hours now. I've recently just created a new user in Kali Linux to which, for some reason, the terminal autocompletion doesn't work at all. I thought it might had to do with some apt distro-upgrade that I've done and suddenly had to shutdown in the middle, but that wouldn't be the case since the main Kali user has the auto-suggestion function working.I have no idea what to do, I've tried checking ~/.bashrc and ~/.zshrc sources, tried reinstalling them as well but nothing.There must be a setting that is user-dependent but I can't seem to find it.If anyone could lend a hand in this it would be extremely appreciated.Thank you so much!
One plus android “12” for net hunter? One plus android “12” for net hunter?u/takgarden•2 yr. agoOne plus android “12” for net hunter?Question - Kali NetHunterI’ve researched downgrading it to 11 which seems like the preferred system but haven’t gotten very far. Any one have any answers for me? 😀 does not seem like 12 version has all the bells and whistles even if I root it. Any help would be amazing
what debian version guides can a kali user follow? What version debian is equal to kali what debian version guides can a kali user follow? What version debian is equal to kaliu/sakaraa•2 yr. agowhat debian version guides can a kali user follow? What version debian is equal to kaliQuestion - Kali GeneralThey say it is based off of "Debian Testing" fork. So does that mean anything working on up to date debian will work on kali? Like current up to date debian is Debian 12, should I just follow its guides while downloading a not natively linux application (in this case I am installing steam)
audio/microphone drivers audio/microphone driversu/darkh00die•2 yr. agoaudio/microphone driversQuestion - Kali GeneralI hope someone can help. A recent update to Kali has removed all the audio and microphone drivers from my distro. Can you anyone point out the packages I need to reinstall to get audio and microphone capability back?Thanks in advance
How to manage Kali OVA import and exports with VirtualBox? How to manage Kali OVA import and exports with VirtualBox?u/masterofrants•2 yr. agoHow to manage Kali OVA import and exports with VirtualBox?Question - Kali GeneralHey everyone!I'm taking a new course at college where we’re using Kali Linux. The professor wants us to have an up-to-date OVA file of Kali Linux with us at all times. We need to export our Kali Linux setup to an OVA file, save it on a pen drive, and bring it to class each time. During the course, we’ll be making changes, installing packages, and so on. After making these updates, we have to export the OVA again and bring the updated version to the next class. Sometimes, we get assignments to install stuff at home, and we need to export the updated image and bring it back to class.When booting Kali Linux, I see options for "Live Install" and "Start Installer." I'm not sure which one to select. When I tried using the installer option in class, I lost all my settings and user accounts that I had set up at home.Can someone give me a quick rundown on how to do this safely and easily?Also, we are required to use VirtualBox because it’s open-source and free. I know VMware is also free, but we won’t be using it for this course.This is the install menu I see when booting up, is using the live install option a better choice?https://i.imgur.com/EeGKiKR.pngThanks!
Kali on steamdeck OLED Kali on steamdeck OLEDu/Doodooltala01•2 yr. agoKali on steamdeck OLEDQuestion - Kali GeneralAny steamdeck OLED owners run kali on there steamdeck? I watched David Bombal video about it and I decided to try it.. I go it installed no probably  but it doesn't seem to connect to wifi (I have to be wired in) and Bluetooth doesn't work at all. any one else have this issue? and is there a way to have persistence on it so it saves my settings?
Problems trying to fix "Unknown Chipset" for RTX 4050 on Omen 16 via GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT. Problems trying to fix "Unknown Chipset" for RTX 4050 on Omen 16 via GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT.u/MLuminos•2 yr. agoProblems trying to fix "Unknown Chipset" for RTX 4050 on Omen 16 via GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT.Question - Kali GeneralI just recently got a HP laptop and when I tried to put kali on it I got the Unknown Chipset error.I have tried modifying the GRUB config to various forms ofnouveau.nomodeset quiet splash modeset=0which no longer presents the unrecognized chipset error but Kali sits on a black screen. It did show an error about CRT monitor port not being found but everything on the internet indicated it was not relevant.If you had this issue can you paste yourGRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT ""line or any other changes you made?ty
How to setup an Kali x86_64 reversing lab on an M1 MacBook using VMWare Fusion How to setup an Kali x86_64 reversing lab on an M1 MacBook using VMWare Fusionu/st0rmaz•2 yr. agoHow to setup an Kali x86_64 reversing lab on an M1 MacBook using VMWare FusionDiscussionhttps://st0rmaz.com/blog/setup-a-kali-vm-on-an-m1-macbook-pro/
Best Wifi Adapters to use? Best Wifi Adapters to use?u/alpha_xray_echo_lima•2 yr. agoBest Wifi Adapters to use?Question - Kali GeneralHi everyone, I recently came across an issue where I was trying to see if I could use macchanger and apparently my wireless chip does not support this, and I was advised to get a wireless USB adapter to ensure that I can change my mac address. I was told the alfa AWUS036ACH adapter was the best, but I was wondering if there are any adapters that may be cheaper/easier to use for this purpose? I am running kali linux on a macbook air with a broadcom BCM4360 chip in case that changes anything.
Vulnerabilities in Kali Linux Vulnerabilities in Kali Linuxu/Asoladoreichon•2 yr. agoVulnerabilities in Kali LinuxQuestion - Kali GeneralAs some people publish posts announcing they want to use Kali Linux as their daily driver, they recieve many  comments saying it's not recommended because it's super bloated, it has many tools you may never use, it doesn't come with basic tools preinstalled you may need, etc.But what caught my attention was that some people said there are that tools might make your system vulnerable. I've heard that before, so I'm still curious of what are those tools exactly and how do they make your system vulnerable, but searching for vulnerabilities on kali linux just throws tutorials about how to find vulnerabilities with it.Edit: As I receive more answers I'm realizing that apparently no one understood the question, so I'll try to make it clear:I'm asking what tools or settings, if any, make your system vulnerable. I DO NOT want to use Kali as my daily driver. I DID NOT say Kali is vulnerable. I DID NOT say any of the declarations of the first paragraph, they came from answer to different posts across this very subreddit.Please, READ CAREFULLY what I'm asking for before trying to give me lessons I didn't ask for that don't help anyone or whatever you're trying to do
Temporary failure in name resolution after an update  Temporary failure in name resolution after an updateu/outerlimtz•2 yr. agoTemporary failure in name resolution after an updateQuestion - Kali GeneralAfter I updated kali a few weeks back, everytime I restart the laptop and log in, I can't get dns to work unless I modify the /etc/resolve.confIbe read a few places to not modify this directly but more resources stating to modify it. Yet everytime the laptop is restarted, it gets over written back to "nameserver  ::::"I even changed the dns line in the /etc/network/if-up.d/resolved file to DNS=8.8.8.8, however after every restart, back to dns issues.There a permanent way to fix this?
Network Adapter wont work on my Rasberry pi 5 running kali linux Network Adapter wont work on my Rasberry pi 5 running kali linux[deleted]•2 yr. agoNetwork Adapter wont work on my Rasberry pi 5 running kali linuxQuestion - Kali ARM
VMware Workstation / Fusion now free for personal use VMware Workstation / Fusion now free for personal useu/stxonships•2 yr. ago•Brand AffiliateVMware Workstation / Fusion now free for personal useDiscussionFor those of you who don't want to use VirtualBox or UTM, VMware has made their formally very expensive products VMware Workstation for Windows/Linux and VMware Fusion Pro for Apple free for personal use.Go tohttps://support.broadcom.com/web/ecx/home#.then register/loginthen go toSoftwarefrom the dropdown menu on the top Left ,thenVMware Cloud FoundationandthenMy Downloads.Then either VMware Workstation Pro for VMware Fusion Pro. Download, and install and select Free for personal use.
Need Alternative's for AWUS036AC(H) In Europe due to unavailability, Need Alternative's for AWUS036AC(H) In Europe due to unavailability,u/appletechgeek•2 yr. agoNeed Alternative's for AWUS036AC(H) In Europe due to unavailability,Question - Kali Generalhello good day,i wanted to purchase Two AWUS036AC(H) usb Wifi dongle's to experiment with attacking Dualband Wifi network's (both 2.4 and 5ghz at same time) and saw that these Alfa units were highly rated and succesfull by the community,however it turns out they're no longer made/for sale at all for me in the Netherlands, and i've been unable to find a suitable replacement with the same capabilities around the same price per dongle of 50~ Euro's.I want to experiment with De-authorizing both 2.4 and 5.0 ghz AP's/client's at the same time to prevent clients from hopping between the band's and keeping their connection, (also wiresharking/sniffing/de-authing while wiresharking Etc)for example.Sonos speaker system's can use 2.4 and/or 5ghzi want to figure out what is going between the speaker's AP's whenever 1 or both Band's get's problem's, (this is my own test Location, i own these devices, no 3rd party will be affected by my testing)according to my research using 2 seperate USB WLAN dongles would be the most reliable for atacking both band's at the same time, would this be correct?what would be decent alternatives for the AWUS036AC(H) USB dongle's with similair or better capabilities for around the same price range of about 50Euro's per dongle in EU/NL?small bonus question, would i need to purchase 2 or 4 of the APA-M25 Directional antenna's if i'm only using 1 band Per Dongle?since these dongle's have 2 antennas i would assume i'd need 2 per dongle, however since each dongle would only be using 1 of it's band's, it might not be quite needed.the Directional antenna would allow me to roughly target specific  Sonos speaker's that are scattered around the location and monitor their behaviour when part's of their mesh/network loses communication,thank you in advance for your recommendations!
WSL2 Kali Linux - Mirrored Networking WSL2 Kali Linux - Mirrored Networking[deleted]•2 yr. agoWSL2 Kali Linux - Mirrored NetworkingQuestion - Kali GeneralI'm looking at using Kali WSL2 but there doesn't seem to be much information regarding how mirrored networkingactuallyworks vs. bridged. It would be ideal to have VPNs/Adapter connected to Windows and leverage mirrored WSL to leverage both Windows and Linux against targets.Historically, Any type of NAT or software based modification to networking is avoided for actual pentesting, especially when it comes to infrastructure. I'm worried that by using mirrored I might be exposing myself to dropped packets/issues.Has anyone tried or confirmed this approach?p.s. I know I could just use Kali in a VM but that's not the question I'm trying to ask. Looking for clarity on Mirrored WSL2 and pentesting.
Kali causing my host mahcine to BSOD Kali causing my host mahcine to BSODu/Mystic87•2 yr. agoKali causing my host mahcine to BSODQuestion - Kali GeneralRecently installed Kali in a virtual box on my windows 10 mahcine and when i try do certian things like open burpsuite it crashes my windows 10 machine causing it to BSOD. Another instance is when browsing on firefox like searching "hydra common username and passpword lists", clicking on some links like a reddit link will also cause it to BSOD. I've tried reinstalling Kali and VB but neither help. Any ideas what could be causing it?
Any offline tools in Kali like this website? Any offline tools in Kali like this website?u/Latter-Isopod-8012•2 yr. agoAny offline tools in Kali like this website?Question - Kali GeneralHey guys, recently had a challenge where I had to extract HTTP credentials from an ethernet frame, with just the frame and not a capture. Straight hex. Still kind of getting my feet wet in Offensive Security. Anyone know how to translate said hex on my Kali box itself and not the interwebs? Found this website that did it for me:https://hpd.gasmi.net/I'd rather find a way to do it offline on my Kali.I understand I could just go through with a conversion chart and do it one by one starting at the payload but there has got to be a faster way I'm not aware of.
Virtual Box vs Hyper-V for Kali Virtual Box vs Hyper-V for Kaliu/Weak-Blacksmith6055•2 yr. agoVirtual Box vs Hyper-V for KaliQuestion - Kali GeneralHi guys,Recently I've decided to retake my Kali training and installed it on Virtual Box (for win11). However, due to the lag, I've changed it for Hyper-V.Is anyone else experiencing lag on VB regardless of how much resources are allocated for the machine?Got an i7-9700k + 64 gb ddr4 2666 ram.
Learning materials Learning materials[deleted]•2 yr. agoLearning materialsQuestion - Kali GeneralIs there any learning materials for Kali which are up to date.  It's hit and miss for how old or new information is on the web.  Kali itself points to offsec.com for training.  I'm looking for like operations manuals type training. Can anyone help?
Community Reddit and discord  Community Reddit and discord[deleted]•2 yr. agoCommunity Reddit and discordQuestion - Kali GeneralApart from Reddit, is there a community on discord that is active?Can anyone recommend an active Kali community please?
apt upgrade is painstakingly slow on Live USB apt upgrade is painstakingly slow on Live USBu/MysteriousSurveyor•2 yr. agoapt upgrade is painstakingly slow on Live USBQuestion - Kali GeneralHello,For my college purposes, I have been using Kali Linux on Virtual Box but since we have to keep moving it around, I have decided to use Kali Live USB bootable. I flashed the "Live" ISO file on a Sandisk 3.2 Gen 1 pendrive with 64 GB storage capacity. The first time (a few months ago) went smoothly indeed, but the someone formatted by entire USB stick.Now, I have flashed and it's ready to run under the same cirucmstances. But when I perform a system update, it takes painstakingly long time to unpack and process the packages. I have tried it thrice and never have been successful to upgrade the packages. I have kept my PC on for 24 hours and in all that, only 27% progress was made.The commands are:sudo apt updatesudo apt full-upgrade -yBut after the last command, the progress bar moves slower than a snail as stated. Could someone help me fix the issue please? The machine I am running it has 16 GB RAM and Intel i5. The persistant storage of Live USB is 27 GB out of 57.2 GB of usuable storage.
kex not working as expected kex not working as expectedu/rl_pending•2 yr. agokex not working as expectedQuestion - Kali GeneralHiI cant get the gui to work.I have spent near on 3 days trouble shooting this and am up to here with smiley faces saying its as easy as that.I have WSL2, on fully updated win 11, non ARM, Kali afaik I have fully upgraded and installed a fair amount (I think)(sudo apt install kali-linux-everything)$ sudo apt upgrade && sudo apt install kali-win-kex -yReading package lists... DoneBuilding dependency tree... Done|Reading state information... DoneCalculating upgrade... Done0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.Reading package lists... DoneBuilding dependency tree... DoneReading state information... Donekali-win-kex is already the newest version (3.1.1).0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.I have kex installed, as I believe working.. ish─$ kex --win -sStarting Win-KeX server (Win)Win-KeX server (Win) is runningWin-KeX server sessions:X DISPLAY #     RFB PORT #      RFB UNIX PATH   PROCESS ID #    SERVER2               5902                            13019 (stale)   XtigervncYou can use the Win-KeX client (Win) to connect to any of these displaysStarting Win-KeX client (Win)The initial vnc client tries to connect to127.0.0.1:1and failsI've also tried using $ sudo kex, $ sudo kex --win, etc$ vncserver --listTigerVNC server sessions:X DISPLAY #     RFB PORT #      RFB UNIX PATH   PROCESS ID #    SERVER2               5902                            13019 (stale)   XtigervncHowever when I fire up tigervnc I get:Failed to connect to "127.0.0.1:5902"Unable to connect to socket: No connection could be made because the target machine actively refuses it:. (10061)(I have repeated this on other ports)It's a relatively fresh installation of windows. Still pretty clean and using Win Defender. I receive notifications if the firewall blocks anything, but I have also turned it off just to see if it makes any difference. Which it doesn'tI've checked the kali firewall:$ sudo iptables -L[sudo] password for rl_pending:Chain INPUT (policy ACCEPT)target     prot opt source               destinationChain FORWARD (policy ACCEPT)target     prot opt source               destinationChain OUTPUT (policy ACCEPT)target     prot opt source               destinationA strange thing occurred with tigervnc:, For a moment I did manage to get something.. a blank screen, after more fiddling I got a blank screen with an active terminal, but now it's back to this. I couldn't retrace my steps.I'm still new to linus/kali. I'm due to go on a course soon and really need this up and running. I'm even having issues getting it to work on my desktop (win 11), but this version won't even install the mega packages.I'm totally lost as to what to do next. I've exhausted copilot and gemini and videos that say "it's this easy"... "all you have to do is type kex and boom there it is".Anyway, any assistance is appreciated, thanks.edit: I'm not changing to another distro, if this issue is so simple it's beneath ya'll to help then, maybe someone would be gracious enough to just give me some keywords to search up, I'm happy to go figure this out myself.edit: ah I see so.$ kex --win -sis instantly producing a dead vncserver -13019 (stale), this is why when I run $ vncserver and start a new server, I can access it using tigervnc. but currently I'm just getting a black screen.
wsl kali frozen on upgrading process wsl kali frozen on upgrading processu/tlax38•2 yr. agowsl kali frozen on upgrading processQuestion - Kali GeneralHey everyone,I've installed kali on wsl with microsoft store, made an upgradesudo apt full-upgrade -yand then... kali is frozen since 15 minutes now :I don't know what the problem is, I don't know what I should do...Thanks by advance for your help.
How Much VRAM do you Dedicated to Your Kali VM? How Much VRAM do you Dedicated to Your Kali VM?u/ThanEEpic•2 yr. agoHow Much VRAM do you Dedicated to Your Kali VM?Question - Kali GeneralHey everyone! I'm working on a remote desktop server for my university's ethical hacking club and I need to get some specifics before I start order parts. I've used Kali VMs on laptops before but no one's ever talked about minimum GPU requirements.Questions:How much of the GPU's VRAM do/should you dedicate to your Kali VM for the desktop as well as GPU intentisive programs like hashcat? Also, would more VRAM be better or faster overall GPU?Bonus Question:Have you ever ran Kali in Proxmox? If so, do you prefer VM or CT?Thanks everyone!
Where to Request a Specific Package Be Updated in APT Where to Request a Specific Package Be Updated in APTu/mikekachar•2 yr. agoWhere to Request a Specific Package Be Updated in APTQuestion - Kali GeneralHey all;I'm sure this will be a quickly answered question (or at least I hope it will be, as I assume it's simple enough)...I'm looking to know where one would go to post a message to request that a specific package inaptis out of date, and to request that it get updated.The application I'm looking at usingapt searchlists a version of the app that is now 1+ years old. I am able to download and install the latest version from the website, however I'd prefer to allow apt to continue to continue performing the updates for me.I've already posted something in that applications forum, requesting that they create a repo that people could add to their sources.list, however my post was made/added onto an original post that is 2.5 years old at this point, and it doesn't seem like they're gonna make a repo available anytime soon (or maybe they're working on it and we'll magically see it in the near future 🤞, but I'm not holding my breath).Anyways, if someone could let me know where, exactly, I could post a request for something like this on the Kali side, I'd be grateful.TIA!
Kali Linux and VMWare Workstation Kali Linux and VMWare Workstationu/TeeStar•2 yr. agoKali Linux and VMWare WorkstationQuestion - Kali GeneralHi , I have Kali 2024.1 installed on a i5 8350u with 32GB  of RAM. I  have VMware Workstation 17.5 installed.  Shortly after (Maybe 3 minutes)  creating a VM the entire system becomes unresponsive.  The only way around this is to hold the power button down to power off the system.It has been a long time since I have used VMWare Workstation,  is it recommended for Kali at all? What other options are there for a hypervisor? VMs would include Windows, Ubuntu, BSD etc.Many thanks in advance.
Basic Questions Megathread Basic Questions Megathreadu/AutoModerator•2 yr. agoBasic Questions MegathreadMegathreadHere, users who are new to Kali Linux can ask basic questions about it and its functionality and receive assistance regarding potential issues they are facing. Please remember to follow the subreddit rules when asking your questions.Before posting, make sure you have reviewedKali's Documentation, as the answer may be well-documented. Additionally, please refer to the following articles to ensure you ask proper and high-quality questions:How do I ask a good questionHow to ask questions the smart wayThe XY problemDon't ask to askPlease remember that while AI/LLM models like ChatGPT can be useful, they are not a substitute for proper troubleshooting. When seeking assistance, it's important to refer to the documentation of the tool, program, or OS you're using and to use your preferred search engine for further research.This megathread will be posted monthly.
PSA: Kali Mirror Outages PSA: Kali Mirror Outagesu/Arszilla•2 yr. agoPSA: Kali Mirror OutagesDiscussionCurrently, the following Kali Linux subdomains are suffering an outage:cdimage.kali.orgforums.kali.orghttp.kali.orgIf you facing errors when executingsudo apt update,sudo apt upgrade, etc., please usekali-tweaksto switch to Cloudflare repositories.The Kali Team is aware of the situation and are working on solving the matter.You can see the status of Kali's services over atstatus.kali.orgEDITAll should be good now.
XZ Utils Rundown: What We Learned and What To Do Next XZ Utils Rundown: What We Learned and What To Do Nextu/Offsec_Community•2 yr. agoXZ Utils Rundown: What We Learned and What To Do NextDiscussionr/offensive_security•2 yr. agoXZ Utils Rundown: What We Learned and What To Do Nexthttps://learn.offsec.com/xz-rundown1upvote
Bluetooth not working Bluetooth not workingu/Avik_saikat•2 yr. agoBluetooth not workingQuestion - Kali GeneralHi, I was not able to connect to any devices but there is an odd thing. I have an apple keyboard and out of all those devices, only this one is pairing and working perfectly fine. Other than that device I'm not able to connect any audio device Bluetooth earphones or keyboard or even mobiles. Here are my syslog2024-04-22T12:50:34.771159+05:30 kali systemd[1]: Stopped bluetooth.service - Bluetooth service. 2024-04-22T12:50:34.793123+05:30 kali systemd[1]: Starting bluetooth.service - Bluetooth service... 2024-04-22T12:50:34.793534+05:30 kali (uetoothd)[10511]: bluetooth.service: ConfigurationDirectory 'bluetooth' already exists but the mode is different. (File system: 755 ConfigurationDirectoryMode: 555) 2024-04-22T12:50:34.825115+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Bluetooth daemon 5.71 2024-04-22T12:50:34.826108+05:30 kali systemd[1]: Started bluetooth.service - Bluetooth service. 2024-04-22T12:50:34.826551+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Starting SDP server 2024-04-22T12:50:34.826816+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: src/plugin.c:plugin_init() System does not support csip plugin 2024-04-22T12:50:34.826850+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: profiles/audio/micp.c:micp_init() D-Bus experimental not enabled 2024-04-22T12:50:34.826893+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: src/plugin.c:plugin_init() System does not support micp plugin 2024-04-22T12:50:34.826934+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: src/plugin.c:plugin_init() System does not support vcp plugin 2024-04-22T12:50:34.826982+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: src/plugin.c:plugin_init() System does not support mcp plugin 2024-04-22T12:50:34.827009+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: src/plugin.c:plugin_init() System does not support bass plugin 2024-04-22T12:50:34.827043+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: src/plugin.c:plugin_init() System does not support bap plugin 2024-04-22T12:50:34.827849+05:30 kali dbus-daemon[1302]: [system] Activating via systemd: service name='org.freedesktop.hostname1' unit='dbus-org.freedesktop.hostname1.service' requested by ':1.138' (uid=0 pid=10511 comm="/usr/libexec/bluetooth/bluetoothd") 2024-04-22T12:50:34.827918+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Bluetooth management interface 1.22 initialized 2024-04-22T12:50:34.827986+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: src/adapter.c:reset_adv_monitors_complete() Failed to reset Adv Monitors: Failed (0x03) 2024-04-22T12:50:34.828024+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Battery Provider Manager created 2024-04-22T12:50:34.828193+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: profiles/sap/server.c:sap_server_register() Sap driver initialization failed. 2024-04-22T12:50:34.828214+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: sap-server: Operation not permitted (1) 2024-04-22T12:50:34.828416+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Failed to clear UUIDs: Failed (0x03) 2024-04-22T12:50:34.828464+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Failed to add UUID: Failed (0x03) 2024-04-22T12:50:34.828497+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Failed to add UUID: Failed (0x03) 2024-04-22T12:50:34.828526+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Failed to add UUID: Failed (0x03) 2024-04-22T12:50:34.835894+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: src/profile.c:register_profile() :1.125 tried to register 0000111f-0000-1000-8000-00805f9b34fb which is already registered 2024-04-22T12:50:34.836304+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.125 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSource/ldac_hq 2024-04-22T12:50:34.836447+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.125 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSource/ldac_sq 2024-04-22T12:50:34.836562+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.125 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSource/ldac_mq 2024-04-22T12:50:34.836681+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.125 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSink/aptx_hd 2024-04-22T12:50:34.836793+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.125 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSource/aptx_hd 2024-04-22T12:50:34.836900+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.125 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSink/aptx 2024-04-22T12:50:34.837009+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.125 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSource/aptx 2024-04-22T12:50:34.837117+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.125 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSink/sbc 2024-04-22T12:50:34.837227+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.125 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSource/sbc 2024-04-22T12:50:34.837355+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.125 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSink/sbc_xq_453 2024-04-22T12:50:34.837469+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.125 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSource/sbc_xq_453 2024-04-22T12:50:34.837583+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.125 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSink/sbc_xq_512 2024-04-22T12:50:34.837697+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.125 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSource/sbc_xq_512 2024-04-22T12:50:34.837805+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.125 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSink/sbc_xq_552 2024-04-22T12:50:34.837917+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.125 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSource/sbc_xq_552 2024-04-22T12:50:34.838051+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.43 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSource/ldac 2024-04-22T12:50:34.838164+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.43 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSink/aptx_hd 2024-04-22T12:50:34.838280+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.43 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSource/aptx_hd 2024-04-22T12:50:34.838392+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.43 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSink/aptx 2024-04-22T12:50:34.838505+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.43 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSource/aptx 2024-04-22T12:50:34.838614+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.43 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSink/sbc 2024-04-22T12:50:34.838728+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.43 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSource/sbc 2024-04-22T12:50:34.838836+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.43 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSink/sbc_xq 2024-04-22T12:50:34.838950+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.43 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSource/sbc_xq 2024-04-22T12:50:34.839061+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.43 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSource/aptx_ll_1 2024-04-22T12:50:34.839174+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.43 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSource/aptx_ll_0 2024-04-22T12:50:34.839283+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.43 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSource/aptx_ll_duplex_1 2024-04-22T12:50:34.839404+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.43 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSource/aptx_ll_duplex_0 2024-04-22T12:50:34.839519+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.43 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSource/faststream 2024-04-22T12:50:34.839633+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.43 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSource/faststream_duplex 2024-04-22T12:50:34.839745+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.43 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSink/opus_05 2024-04-22T12:50:34.839858+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.43 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSource/opus_05 2024-04-22T12:50:34.839966+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.43 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSink/opus_05_duplex 2024-04-22T12:50:34.840076+05:30 kali bluetoothd[10511]: Endpoint registered: sender=:1.43 path=/MediaEndpoint/A2DPSource/opus_05_duplex 2024-04-22T12:56:31.593850+05:30 kali bluetoothd[13243]: Bluetooth daemon 5.71 2024-04-22T12:56:31.593937+05:30 kali bluetoothd[13243]: src/main.c:parse_config() parsing /etc/bluetooth/main.conf 2024-04-22T12:56:31.594301+05:30 kali bluetoothd[13243]: src/main.c:main() Unable to get on D-Busdmesg➜ dmesg | grep -i blue  [    1.980016] usb 1-4: Product: Bluetooth Radio [    5.442803] Bluetooth: Core ver 2.22 [    5.442824] NET: Registered PF_BLUETOOTH protocol family [    5.442826] Bluetooth: HCI device and connection manager initialized [    5.442830] Bluetooth: HCI socket layer initialized [    5.442833] Bluetooth: L2CAP socket layer initialized [    5.442838] Bluetooth: SCO socket layer initialized [    5.500092] Bluetooth: hci0: RTL: examining hci_ver=0b hci_rev=000a lmp_ver=0b lmp_subver=8852 [    5.502094] Bluetooth: hci0: RTL: rom_version status=0 version=1 [    5.502099] Bluetooth: hci0: RTL: loading rtl_bt/rtl8852au_fw.bin [    5.502735] bluetooth hci0: firmware: direct-loading firmware rtl_bt/rtl8852au_fw.bin [    5.502792] Bluetooth: hci0: RTL: loading rtl_bt/rtl8852au_config.bin [    5.502956] bluetooth hci0: firmware: direct-loading firmware rtl_bt/rtl8852au_config.bin [    5.502984] Bluetooth: hci0: RTL: cfg_sz 6, total sz 61035 [    6.012101] Bluetooth: hci0: RTL: fw version 0xdac7480d [    6.215265] Bluetooth: BNEP (Ethernet Emulation) ver 1.3 [    6.215269] Bluetooth: BNEP filters: protocol multicast [    6.215272] Bluetooth: BNEP socket layer initialized [    6.216630] Bluetooth: MGMT ver 1.22 [   10.224177] Bluetooth: RFCOMM TTY layer initialized [   10.224183] Bluetooth: RFCOMM socket layer initialized [   10.224187] Bluetooth: RFCOMM ver 1.11bluetoothd➜ sudo bluetoothd -n -d bluetoothd[14212]: Bluetooth daemon 5.71 bluetoothd[14212]: src/main.c:parse_config() parsing /etc/bluetooth/main.conf D-Bus setup failed: Name already in use bluetoothd[14212]: src/main.c:main() Unable to get on D-Bus
Image for Nethunter OOS10 One plus 7 pro Image for Nethunter OOS10 One plus 7 prou/Fixo2•2 yr. agoImage for Nethunter OOS10 One plus 7 proQuestion - Kali NetHunterIt has been removed from the official site even tho the documentation is still recomending using OOS10. Does anyone have the img and could host it ?
Kali 6.x.x kernel upgrades leading to increasingly worse performance? Kali 6.x.x kernel upgrades leading to increasingly worse performance?u/video_dhara•2 yr. agoKali 6.x.x kernel upgrades leading to increasingly worse performance?Question - Kali GeneralI recently updated to Kali 6.6 2024, which is running native on a semi-isolated Macbook Air. I first started seeing problems where Virtualbox was hanging indefinitely, due to either a kernel module mismatch which I didn't feel like dealing with (just reinstalled VMs on VMware for the time being.Most recent upgrade is much worse...After running for 20 or so minutes, things go to shit. NetworkManager often has to be restarted after disconnecting a VPN; and eventual EVERYTHING starts hanging: command binaries, shell scripts, service restarts. Running VMs that worked fine on 5.x.x now sometimes at 50% cpu usage.At first I can kill processes and things seem alright, but there's a point where everything freezes and I have to force restart the system.Anyone have any suggestions for getting things back to normal. It's admittedly not a fast computer but this is way worse than I would expect. Any insight into how to get things running smoothly again would be much appreciated!
Quality of Life Changes to the Subreddit Quality of Life Changes to the Subredditu/Arszilla•2 yr. agoQuality of Life Changes to the SubredditDiscussionHi all,Since our lastpost, we have implemented some of the changes we have been considering and that you have suggested.Going forward, the following changes are effective:To make a post, you need 200 karma and an account older than 90 days.To make a comment, you need 100 karma and an account older than 90 days.We have implemented post flairs. The AutoModerator will be configured to remind you to set a flair on your post, but this is WIP. Until we can configure AutoModerator to remind you to set the flair, please make sure you set one of the appropriate flairs listed below on your post:Question - Kali GeneralQuestion - Kali ARMQuestion - Kali PurpleQuestion - Kali NetHunterDiscussionIf you have any feedback or concerns regarding these changes, please feel free to share your thoughts below. We'd love to hear your feedback on how to improve the subreddit for everyone.EDITAs of 2024-04-23, post flairs are now enforced and are required to submit posts tor/KaliLinux.
It's been 3hrs and still stuck  It's been 3hrs and still stucku/Simple_Ear_1799•2 yr. agoIt's been 3hrs and still stuckQuestion - Kali General
New Linux learners should not use Kali but beginner friendly distros? New Linux learners should not use Kali but beginner friendly distros?u/Tami_Kari•2 yr. agoNew Linux learners should not use Kali but beginner friendly distros?DiscussionI have a question about  prevailing advice that new Linux users should avoid Kali.I see a lot of posts that dont belong here, because it is about basic Linux things. Mods focus on leading OPs to the appropriate sources where people can start learning Linux - which is great, appreciate their work! I just answered on one of those questions here and found out that mods told them the opposite of what I said and then I was questioning the validity of my viewpoint, also I wont do that anymore and let the mods do.Although why is it that users here (mods and others) always say OP should not start with Kali instead they should start with a beginner friendly distro like Mint?Its not even that I dont see the part of "Kali is not for you yet" when it comes to Kali's usecase. But why are people recommending everyone to use beginner friendly distros? In Linux Mint there is hardly any reason to troubleshoot. It comes with so many aps and dependencies pre installed that it wont help anyone to teach someone what a repository is for example. The GUI is so well done that the Terminal is hardly needed.I hope you get my point, maybe I am missing something out but why is no one suggesting that "noob" OP that WANTS to learn Linux gets Debian stable? Or if they are really adventurous even Arch? How should Ubuntu/Mint help a new Linux user learn how Linux works when even my grandma can use it with no clue of PCs? Thats like handing someone a Macbook Pro that wants to learn about Unix-basics no? Is it not that a new Linux User on Mint/Ubuntu more likely will learn how to Mint/Ubuntu instead of Linux?When I started with Debian I needed to google a lot. I learned about "is this a debian problem or is it my program / script I am trying to run?" or "why do I have 2 Firefoxes installed? (snap)" and stuff like that. I had to look through docs, reddit or other forums, and sure would have asked AI if it was available back then.Also if people come here with "want to learn cyber sec, got a laptop and cant wait to start - what Kali I need" maybe it is better to push them into Parrot direction? Parrot is intended to be used bare metal too including everyday office and scripting tasks which it makes a pretty neat starting point for THM or sth I guess? (yeah I know one should use a VM for many csecurity tasks.. still if people want to bare metal, Parrot maybe is the better choice than Mint?)I would love if some of you could explain me why beginner friendly distros shall be the place to start Linux. Thank you for your time anyway. Also Mods thank you for your great work - I absolutely do not mean this post offensive in any way.
Nethunter store not finding any apps Nethunter store not finding any appsu/Mx_esc0nder•2 yr. agoNethunter store not finding any appsQuestion - Kali NetHunter
How can it be that big? How can it be that big?u/Minute-Finding-9629•2 yr. agoHow can it be that big?
Failed Kali instal due to AMDGPU issues Failed Kali instal due to AMDGPU issuesu/Calm-Equipment9977•2 yr. agoFailed Kali instal due to AMDGPU issuesQuestion - Kali GeneralTried installing Kali on my new PC (dual booting with windows11), but I guess something failed in the process due to my AMD RX 7800 XT, and when I start up Kali now it gives the following message:[    1.081154] hub 8-0:1.0: config failed, hub doens't have any ports! (err -19)[    3.077645] amdgpu 00000:03:00.0: firmware: failed to load amdgpu/psp_13_0_10_sos.bin (-2)[    3.007655] firmware_class: Seehttps://wiki.debian.org/Firmwarefor information about missing firmware[    3.077670] amdgpu 0000:03:00.0: firmware: failed to load amdgpu/psp_13_0_10_sos.bin (-2)[    3.077679] [drm:amdgpu_device_init [amdgpu]] *ERROR* early_init of IP block ,psp. failed -19... repeat...[    3.079858] amdgpu 0000:03:00.0: amdgpu: Fatal error during GPU initI have tried updating firmware in recovery mode, and upgrading/updating all sorts of things, but nothing worked.Anyone has any ideas what is left for me to do? If not, what do you consider to be the best option to remove this whole partition and the GRUP so i can use this computer for windows only?
No persistence No persistenceu/Erica_vanHelsin•2 yr. agoNo persistenceHello, I've tried about every link found over the internet, including, ofcourse, those from Kali, I've created my usb about 10 times, with Rufus, with and without reserved size, with CLI DD, etc ...Usb stick 128Go, partitioning = 87Go (main) 60mo (boot) 32Go persistence.In a way to create that 128Go stick, I log into another OS (any via Ventoy, or native Suse)I boot into normal, into persistent, into encrypted persistent, it works (I log-in) in each (with password for encrypted persistent)BUT, anything I write .... disapear. There is no persistence.All my setup needs to be re-done each time, all files, added (downlodaded) services, like xsfmngr, nothing stays And I don't see the pattition "persistence" on my desktopI'm out of idea (and hope)This is a doublon, To be continued here :https://www.reddit.com/r/Kalilinux/s/Q40GTY1iqN
Feedback for The Moderation Team Feedback for The Moderation Teamu/Arszilla•2 yr. agoFeedback for The Moderation TeamDiscussionHey all,As you may have noticed in the past couple of weeks,u/synti-syntiand I have been working hard to improve the subreddit as a whole. Part of this effort has been to rewrite the subreddit rules and removal reasons and enforce them to ensure that the quality of the content in the subreddit improves as a whole.Some of you have been appreciative enough to DM me (and I'm pretty sureu/synti-syntigot some as well) to thank us for our work, which we are happy to hear it is being noticed and is making people happy. However, we'd like to know more about what else we can do besides revamping the rules and enforcing them.We'd love to hear your suggestions so we can figure out other ways to bring some order to this subreddit. So, feel free to share your ideas as well as feedback to help us evaluate how to improve the subreddit for everyone involved.TIA.
Which one is better ?  Which one is better ?u/Pretty_Musician2270•2 yr. agoWhich one is better ?Which one is better ? Using kali Linux on virtual machine or using kali on WSL ?
No sound on TigerLake laptop Kali Linux No sound on TigerLake laptop Kali Linuxu/pmwofilter•2 yr. agoNo sound on TigerLake laptop Kali LinuxI've been trying to solve this problem for six months now. I have  Kali Linux on my laptop running on kernel 6.9.0-rc3-sof+. From the  moment of installation, it only worked via HDMI, despite its built-in  speakers operating under Windows 11. In Kali Linux, no matter how I  tried, I could not get working built-in speakers. In Manjaro Live CD  they work without any configuration.inxi -Fazy output:  System:   Kernel: 6.9.0-rc3-sof+ arch: x86_64 bits: 64 compiler: gcc v: 13.2.0     clocksource: tsc avail: acpi_pm     parameters: BOOT_IMAGE=/boot/vmlinuz-6.9.0-rc3-sof+     root=UUID=edeb525a-40d8-42c4-b64d-1c7333615a4a ro quiet     snd_intel_dspcfg.dsp_driver=1 splash   Desktop: GNOME v: 45.3 tk: GTK v: 3.24.41 wm: gnome-shell     tools: gsd-screensaver-proxy avail: i3lock, slock, xautolock, xss-lock     dm: GDM3 v: 45.0.1 Distro: Kali GNU/Linux 2024.1 kali-rolling     base: Debian testing Machine:   Type: Laptop System: Haier product: i1550SML v: N/A     serial: <superuser required>   Mobo: Haier model: Haier i1550SML serial: <superuser required>     part-nu: i1550SML uuid: <superuser required> UEFI: American Megatrends LLC.     v: TG819_S_V5.1.5 date: 01/11/2023 Battery:   ID-1: BAT0 charge: 55.0 Wh (100.0%) condition: 55.0/55.0 Wh (100.0%)     volts: 11.4 min: N/A model: Intel SR 1 SR Real Battery type: Unknown     serial: <filter> status: charging CPU:   Info: model: 11th Gen Intel Core i3-1115G4 bits: 64 type: MT MCP     arch: Tiger Lake gen: core 11 level: v4 note: check built: 2020     process: Intel 10nm family: 6 model-id: 0x8C (140) stepping: 2     microcode: 0x36   Topology: cpus: 1x cores: 2 tpc: 2 threads: 4 smt: enabled cache:     L1: 160 KiB desc: d-2x48 KiB; i-2x32 KiB L2: 2.5 MiB desc: 2x1.2 MiB     L3: 6 MiB desc: 1x6 MiB   Speed (MHz): avg: 1264 high: 1300 min/max: 400/4100 scaling:     driver: intel_pstate governor: powersave cores: 1: 1277 2: 1256 3: 1300     4: 1224 bogomips: 23961   Flags: avx avx2 ht lm nx pae sse sse2 sse3 sse4_1 sse4_2 ssse3 vmx   Vulnerabilities:   Type: gather_data_sampling mitigation: Microcode   Type: itlb_multihit status: Not affected   Type: l1tf status: Not affected   Type: mds status: Not affected   Type: meltdown status: Not affected   Type: mmio_stale_data status: Not affected   Type: reg_file_data_sampling status: Not affected   Type: retbleed status: Not affected   Type: spec_rstack_overflow status: Not affected   Type: spec_store_bypass mitigation: Speculative Store Bypass disabled via     prctl   Type: spectre_v1 mitigation: usercopy/swapgs barriers and __user pointer     sanitization   Type: spectre_v2 mitigation: Enhanced / Automatic IBRS, IBPB: conditional,     RSB filling, PBRSB-eIBRS: SW sequence   Type: srbds status: Not affected   Type: tsx_async_abort status: Not affected Graphics:   Device-1: Intel Tiger Lake-LP GT2 [UHD Graphics G4] vendor: nCipher Security     driver: i915 v: kernel arch: Gen-12.1 process: Intel 10nm built: 2020-21     ports: active: HDMI-A-1,eDP-1 empty: DP-1 bus-ID: 00:02.0     chip-ID: 8086:9a78 class-ID: 0300   Display: x11 server: X.Org v: 21.1.11 with: Xwayland v: 23.2.4     compositor: gnome-shell driver: X: loaded: modesetting unloaded: fbdev,vesa     dri: iris gpu: i915 display-ID: :1 screens: 1   Screen-1: 0 s-res: 3000x1920 s-dpi: 96 s-size: 794x508mm (31.26x20.00")     s-diag: 943mm (37.11")   Monitor-1: HDMI-A-1 mapped: HDMI-1 pos: top-right model: Samsung     built: 2008 res: 1080x1920 hz: 60 dpi: 305 gamma: 1.4     size: 90x160mm (3.54x6.3") diag: 184mm (7.2") ratio: 16:9 modes:     max: 1280x720 min: 640x480   Monitor-2: eDP-1 pos: primary,bottom-l model-id: STA 0xafc9 built: 2020     res: 1920x1080 hz: 60 dpi: 142 gamma: 1.2 size: 344x194mm (13.54x7.64")     diag: 395mm (15.5") ratio: 16:9 modes: 1920x1080   API: EGL v: 1.5 hw: drv: intel iris platforms: device: 0 drv: iris     device: 1 drv: swrast gbm: drv: iris surfaceless: drv: iris x11: drv: iris     inactive: wayland   API: OpenGL v: 4.6 compat-v: 4.5 vendor: intel mesa v: 23.3.5-1 glx-v: 1.4     direct-render: yes renderer: Mesa Intel UHD Graphics (TGL GT2)     device-ID: 8086:9a78 memory: 15 GiB unified: yes Audio:   Device-1: Intel Tiger Lake-LP Smart Sound Audio vendor: Emdoor Digital     driver: snd_hda_intel v: kernel alternate: snd_sof_pci_intel_tgl     bus-ID: 00:1f.3 chip-ID: 8086:a0c8 class-ID: 0401   API: ALSA v: k6.9.0-rc3-sof+ status: kernel-api     tools: alsactl,alsamixer,amixer   Server-1: PipeWire v: 1.0.3 status: active with: 1: pipewire-pulse     status: active 2: wireplumber status: active 3: pipewire-alsa type: plugin     4: pw-jack type: plugin tools: pactl,pw-cat,pw-cli,wpctl Network:   Device-1: Realtek RTL8821CE 802.11ac PCIe Wireless Network Adapter     driver: rtw_8821ce v: N/A modules: rtw88_8821ce pcie: gen: 1 speed: 2.5 GT/s     lanes: 1 port: 3000 bus-ID: 01:00.0 chip-ID: 10ec:c821 class-ID: 0280   IF: wlan0 state: down mac: <filter>   Device-2: Realtek RTL8153 Gigabit Ethernet Adapter driver: r8152 type: USB     rev: 2.1 speed: 480 Mb/s lanes: 1 mode: 2.0 bus-ID: 3-1:2 chip-ID: 0bda:8153     class-ID: 0000 serial: <filter>   IF: eth0 state: up speed: 1000 Mbps duplex: full mac: <filter>   Info: services: NetworkManager, systemd-timesyncd, wpa_supplicant Bluetooth:   Device-1: Realtek Bluetooth Radio driver: btusb v: 0.8 type: USB rev: 1.1     speed: 12 Mb/s lanes: 1 mode: 1.1 bus-ID: 3-10:5 chip-ID: 0bda:c821     class-ID: e001 serial: <filter>   Report: hciconfig ID: hci0 rfk-id: 0 state: down bt-service: disabled     rfk-block: hardware: no software: no address: <filter>   Info: acl-mtu: 1021:8 sco-mtu: 255:12 link-policy: rswitch hold sniff park     link-mode: peripheral accept Drives:   Local Storage: total: 476.94 GiB used: 41.11 GiB (8.6%)   SMART Message: Unable to run smartctl. Root privileges required.   ID-1: /dev/sda maj-min: 8:0 model: HJDK SSD 512GB size: 476.94 GiB     block-size: physical: 512 B logical: 512 B speed: 6.0 Gb/s tech: SSD     serial: <filter> fw-rev: 3A0 scheme: GPT Partition:   ID-1: / raw-size: 99.05 GiB size: 96.93 GiB (97.87%) used: 41.07 GiB (42.4%)     fs: ext4 dev: /dev/sda5 maj-min: 8:5   ID-2: /boot/efi raw-size: 100 MiB size: 96 MiB (96.00%)     used: 34.5 MiB (35.9%) fs: vfat dev: /dev/sda1 maj-min: 8:1 Swap:   Kernel: swappiness: 60 (default) cache-pressure: 100 (default) zswap: no   ID-1: swap-1 type: partition size: 977 MiB used: 0 KiB (0.0%) priority: -2     dev: /dev/sda6 maj-min: 8:6 Sensors:   System Temperatures: cpu: 64.0 C mobo: N/A   Fan Speeds (rpm): N/A Info:   Memory: total: 16 GiB note: est. available: 15.36 GiB used: 3.95 GiB (25.7%)   Processes: 215 Power: uptime: 21m states: freeze,mem,disk suspend: s2idle     avail: deep wakeups: 0 hibernate: platform avail: shutdown, reboot, suspend,     test_resume image: 6.1 GiB services: gsd-power, power-profiles-daemon,     upowerd Init: systemd v: 255 target: graphical (5) default: graphical     tool: systemctl   Packages: 3285 pm: dpkg pkgs: 3268 libs: 1414 tools: apt,apt-get pm: rpm     pkgs: 0 pm: flatpak pkgs: 17 Compilers: clang: 16.0.6 alt: 14/15 gcc: 13.2.0     alt: 12 Shell: Zsh v: 5.9 running-in: gnome-terminal inxi: 3.3.33  lspci:  00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Device 9a04 (rev 02) 00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Tiger Lake-LP GT2 [UHD Graphics G4] (rev 03) 00:04.0 Signal processing controller: Intel Corporation TigerLake-LP Dynamic Tuning Processor Participant (rev 02) 00:08.0 System peripheral: Intel Corporation GNA Scoring Accelerator module (rev 02) 00:0a.0 Signal processing controller: Intel Corporation Tigerlake Telemetry Aggregator Driver (rev 01) 00:0d.0 USB controller: Intel Corporation Tiger Lake-LP Thunderbolt 4 USB Controller (rev 02) 00:14.0 USB controller: Intel Corporation Tiger Lake-LP USB 3.2 Gen 2x1 xHCI Host Controller (rev 30) 00:14.2 RAM memory: Intel Corporation Tiger Lake-LP Shared SRAM (rev 30) 00:15.0 Serial bus controller: Intel Corporation Tiger Lake-LP Serial IO I2C Controller #0 (rev 30) 00:15.1 Serial bus controller: Intel Corporation Tiger Lake-LP Serial IO I2C Controller #1 (rev 30) 00:15.2 Serial bus controller: Intel Corporation Tiger Lake-LP Serial IO I2C Controller #2 (rev 30) 00:15.3 Serial bus controller: Intel Corporation Tiger Lake-LP Serial IO I2C Controller #3 (rev 30) 00:16.0 Communication controller: Intel Corporation Tiger Lake-LP Management Engine Interface (rev 30) 00:17.0 SATA controller: Intel Corporation Tiger Lake-LP SATA Controller (rev 30) 00:19.0 Serial bus controller: Intel Corporation Tiger Lake-LP Serial IO I2C Controller #4 (rev 30) 00:19.1 Serial bus controller: Intel Corporation Tiger Lake-LP Serial IO I2C Controller #5 (rev 30) 00:1d.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation Tiger Lake-LP PCI Express Root Port #9 (rev 30) 00:1e.0 Communication controller: Intel Corporation Tiger Lake-LP Serial IO UART Controller #0 (rev 30) 00:1e.3 Serial bus controller: Intel Corporation Tiger Lake-LP Serial IO SPI Controller #1 (rev 30) 00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation Tiger Lake-LP LPC Controller (rev 30) 00:1f.3 Multimedia audio controller: Intel Corporation Tiger Lake-LP Smart Sound Technology Audio Controller (rev 30) 00:1f.4 SMBus: Intel Corporation Tiger Lake-LP SMBus Controller (rev 30) 00:1f.5 Serial bus controller: Intel Corporation Tiger Lake-LP SPI Controller (rev 30) 01:00.0 Network controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8821CE 802.11ac PCIe Wireless Network Adapter  uname -a:  Linux kali 6.9.0-rc3-sof+ #1 SMP PREEMPT_DYNAMIC Sun Apr 14 21:35:45 MSK 2024 x86_64 GNU/Linux  aplay -l:  **** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices **** card 0: PCH [HDA Intel PCH], device 3: HDMI 0 [SAMSUNG]   Subdevices: 1/1   Subdevice #0: subdevice #0 card 0: PCH [HDA Intel PCH], device 7: HDMI 1 [HDMI 1]   Subdevices: 1/1   Subdevice #0: subdevice #0 card 0: PCH [HDA Intel PCH], device 8: HDMI 2 [HDMI 2]   Subdevices: 1/1   Subdevice #0: subdevice #0 card 0: PCH [HDA Intel PCH], device 9: HDMI 3 [HDMI 3]   Subdevices: 1/1   Subdevice #0: subdevice #0I tried to rebuild kernels, from stable 6.8.0 to custom SOF kernel,  changing pipewire to pulseaudio, apt install firmware-sof-signed,  manually changing /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf. No changes at  all/xserver brick. blacklist snd_hda_intel and modprobe -s  snd_sof_pci_intel_tgl - dummy outputI would be grateful for any help, I'm tired of messing with it :(
Brute Force SSH tps is at 0.7, with 24GB dedicated to Kali Brute Force SSH tps is at 0.7, with 24GB dedicated to Kaliu/throwitaway133718•2 yr. agoBrute Force SSH tps is at 0.7, with 24GB dedicated to KaliIm following along with Testout's Security+ equivalent class to brute force ssh creds, but it is taking so long that it times out and the tps is crazy low. I am running Kali on VMware, with metasploitable 2 as the target machine (in an isolated network).I have allocated 24.3GB ram to the Kali VM, as well as one processor with one processor per core, as people on reddit have mentioned the lower the better. I have enabled 3D Acceleration, as well as VMware tools, and allocated RAM so there are no memory swaps. CPU usage hovers around 12%-20%, memory utilization is under 20%. Memory integrity is disabled.Idk what else to do. I have also downloaded the latest version of VMware workstation and Kali (the one after the XZ incident)Any suggestions to speed this up?Thank you
Error after reinstalling windows i. Dual boot Error after reinstalling windows i. Dual bootu/Avik_saikat•2 yr. agoError after reinstalling windows i. Dual bootQuestion - Kali General
Kali on a current ARM Windows laptop Kali on a current ARM Windows laptopu/Sadangelclownboy•2 yr. agoKali on a current ARM Windows laptopQuestion - Kali ARMSo I've been running Arch on my other laptop for quite a while and am kinda familiar with the Linux world, which brings me to my problem with this machine. I got a laptop for relatively nothing. It's a Lenovo Flex 5g. It is currently running Windows 11 pro on a Snapdragon ARM processor. I run Kali Win-Kex and that works just fine but I want the full experience. I want Kali on bare metal. Problem is it's ARM. I've tried every version of the installer image. The only thing that I can get to work is the ARM live usb installer, and that only works if I put it in failsafe mode. Other than that I just have the command line version. Also, even when I get it to boot in failsafe with the GUI, the keyboard and touch pad don't work, but if I plug in an external one it works just fine. All the programs load function. I'm at a loss.
Help Needed! Dual Booting Kali Linux(Newbie) Help Needed! Dual Booting Kali Linux(Newbie)u/Regular_Fail7208•2 yr. agoHelp Needed! Dual Booting Kali Linux(Newbie)Hey everyone! I'm trying to dual boot Kali Linux on my Windows PC.  I followed this guide: [https://forums.kali.org/showthread.php?25308-How-to-Install-Kali-Linux-without-any-removable-media], but I hit a snag.I successfully ran the "Kali Live USB with encrypted persistence," but there wasn't an option to actually install Kali. Now I'm stuck!My Questions:• Is there a solution for this?• Is there another way to dual boot Kali without a USB drive or CD? I'd prefer not to use any external media if possible.•Can I use my existing Kali Live USB with persistence, but on a separate partition? My C drive is cramped, so I created a partition specifically for Kali data. How can I leverage that space for the live Kali environment? I'm using the latest Kali 2024 ISO.Any advice from the KaliLinux community would be greatly appreciated!  Thanks in advance!
USB microphone flickers or stops working when changing mouse DPI on Linux — anyone else? USB microphone flickers or stops working when changing mouse DPI on Linux — anyone else?u/AdNeither8322•49 min. agoUSB microphone flickers or stops working when changing mouse DPI on Linux — anyone else?QUESTIONI ran into an issue after buying a new mouse, Bloody R73 Ultra Duo.If I keep the DPI at 400, everything works fine. But as soon as I increase or decrease the DPI, my USB microphone, Fifine AmpliGame A6, starts flickering or turning off. Audio driver - pipewireDuring the flickering or when the LED indicators go off, the microphone is still connected to the system (according to pavucontrol).If it flickers, it usually recovers within 1–3 seconds.If the LEDs completely turn off, the only way to get it working again is either to set the DPI back to 400, or to change the DPI in any direction and wait for the microphone to start flickering and recover.Has anyone experienced something similar on Linux?
AUR malware scanner in Rust AUR malware scanner in Rustu/Forward_Anything_646•5 days agoAUR malware scanner in RustSHAREhttps://github.com/Sohimaster/traur
The things you do to harden Arch The things you do to harden Archu/_529•20 hr. agoThe things you do to harden ArchDISCUSSIONBeyond firewall and common sense, what you guys do to enhance the privacy of your OS. I'm an average desktop user and not that paranoid to use SELinux, tailOS, Qube OS, etc.  But I do have some data to protect so I have LUKS installed. Recently, I consider to install apparmor. Should I do it or not ? Also, what's your approach ?
Bless everyone who contributes to the Arch wiki Bless everyone who contributes to the Arch wikiu/GoblinInAJar•14 days agoBless everyone who contributes to the Arch wikiFLUFFIt's all in the title. Seriously, y'all make life so much better. I've been using Arch since 2018, dropped out of my compsci master during covid because of health issues, and still stuck to Arch despite cognitive fatigue and my increasingly rusty ability to use compsci arcana. Still no regrets, and the wiki is a large part of how smooth my overall Arch experience has been. Thank y'all so much for your work.
I had gotten used to mediocrity I had gotten used to mediocrityu/LawrBond•13 hr. agoI had gotten used to mediocritySHAREI started my linux journey 6 years ago and after a month of serious distro hopping i settled on ubuntu lts on my late 2012 mac mini i7 ,fast forward till 2 weeks ago it had served me well but i finally budged to all the unix-porn posts of Wayland wm rices and decided to give it a try ,i went all in ,wiped my trusty ubuntu and installed Arch >Niri>DMSArch was just a necessary evil (so i thought )coz i wanted Niri and back when i started my linux journey I never tried fedora so i just went with arch , Now tell me why everything!! Is faster and smoother,pc bootup time , app loading times ,in app experience improved a lot ,ram usege is down by 50% (i would regularly max out my 8gig ram and the system would crush on ubuntu),the fan is no longer spinning crazy and average temps are down by 10°c ,no more dealing with Snaps😭(trust me they are slow)Niri and DMS are just perfect ,i have 2 monitors (major reason for ditching Gnome) so i wanted full control and treat each monitor as a seperate system with seperate workspaces,bars and docks and DMS handles all these out the box with relative eaze via a complete GUI. All these years i tried to make gnome what it couldn't fully be (a tilling WM) 😂 ,i switched for the eye candy but im blown away by the improvement in every department ,,ARCH/Niri/DMS for the win !!!!! , stupid me should have switched way back!! If you're on the fence, SWITCH!!!!!! NOW!!!!
like seriously how is archlinux always good like seriously how is archlinux always goodu/Beneficial-Tea3217•6 days agolike seriously how is archlinux always goodFLUFFEverytime I switch to another distro I just go back to archlinuxI don't know but there is something they put into their distro to make it this addictinginstalling, configuring, ricing everything is in your preferences which is super coolthey made you get this feeling that you're the actual owner of your distrofinally: I love archlinux
What software do you miss most on Arch Linux (Aur)? What software do you miss most on Arch Linux (Aur)?u/Suspicious-Charity-5•10 hr. agoWhat software do you miss most on Arch Linux (Aur)?DISCUSSIONI maintain Arch and use it daily, but I keep running into the same issue:some tools I rely on either don’t exist in AUR or are barely maintained.After recently fixing one such case, I realized I’d rather ask directly:What software do *you* struggle with on Arch?What do you install via Flatpak/Snap/AppImage only because there’s no decent Arch package?If there’s something clearly needed, I’d be happy to look into packaging/maintaining it.
Arch for a stable daily? Arch for a stable daily?u/x3frank•4 hr. agoArch for a stable daily?QUESTIONArch for a stable daily?r/hyprland•4 hr. agoArch for a stable daily?I want to run Hyprland long term and I like the idea of building it on Arch for the control and minimal base.That said, I also want a stable workstation. I’m not trying to reinstall every few months or deal with constant forced updates. I’ve been using a 2020 Macbook running MacOS11 for 6 years, so i’m fine with not having most up to date features.For those actually daily-driving Arch + Hyprland — is it solid if you maintain it properly, or does rolling release eventually cause issues?Would something like Ubuntu/Debian + Hyprland be smarter if stability is the priority? Gonna be installing on an external SSD on that Mac so needs to have some T2 compatible guide as I have no clue what i’m doing lol.2upvotes·16comments
Why Is Arch Linux So Cool? Why Is Arch Linux So Cool?u/pedazodelamierda•21 days agoWhy Is Arch Linux So Cool?DISCUSSIONI moved to Arch Linux from macOS a few months ago, and it feels like the only operating system I need. Everything is well documented and very easy to configure. Thepacmanpackage manager is just awesome, and together withyay, it makes it easy to install literally everything I need.The thing is, I had some experience with Ubuntu before installing Arch, and it didn’t feel as nice or comfortable. But why? Other GNU/Linux distributions have package managers as well, and they use the same configuration files, and so on.So when my friend asked me why I ended up falling in love with Arch Linux, I realized that I didn’t actually know the answer. Maybe you can answer this question?I use Arch Linux mostly for playing Roblox and Minecraft, software development in C, Python, Assembly, and Rust, and for building electrical circuits and similar things. I know I can do all of this on almost any operating system and GNU/Linux distribution, but Arch Linux still feels like a gem.
Ethernet connection is unstable Ethernet connection is unstableu/ShipMedical7329•18 hr. agoEthernet connection is unstableSUPPORTMy ethernet connection to my pc is unstable cuz its working and then stops working. Not to mention that the rate is like 50KiB/s of upload and download is super low.For context, I setup Arch yesterday after having some problems with the bootloader and now its fully working, but now I have this problem with the Ethernet. Idk if its a missing drive or something more specific of my pc build or bios.Anyone can help me?
I am a music producer working on Arch Linux, just released an album and music video. AMA I am a music producer working on Arch Linux, just released an album and music video. AMAu/unfamusic•2 days agoI am a music producer working on Arch Linux, just released an album and music video. AMASHAREhttps://unfa.xyz/breakthrough
What's your favorite lightweight but good looking DE? What's your favorite lightweight but good looking DE?u/47th-Element•1 day agoWhat's your favorite lightweight but good looking DE?QUESTIONI've installed ArchLinux ARMv7 on a MT6761 quadra core CPU with 2GB of ram so I'm open to exploring. What's your recommendations?
Thanks to all the Wiki editors Thanks to all the Wiki editorsu/davispuh•2 days agoThanks to all the Wiki editorsFLUFFI've been using Arch Wiki for so many years and it's really best thing ever.So really thank you to all of those who contribute to the Wiki and made it so good!
Wifi-QR not showing up in plasma-nm ui Wifi-QR not showing up in plasma-nm uiu/TyranoTitanic42•2 days agoWifi-QR not showing up in plasma-nm uiSUPPORTWifi-QR not showing up in plasma-nm uir/kde•2 days agoWifi-QR not showing up in plasma-nm uiWifi-QR not showing up in plasma-nm ui when using iwd as a backend for Network-Manager (done according toarch-wiki)SysinfoOperating System: Arch Linux  KDE Plasma Version: 6.5.5  KDE Frameworks Version: 6.22.0  Qt Version: 6.10.2Lib/Pkginfoextra/plasma-nm 6.5.5-1 (plasma) [installed] extra/networkmanager 1.54.3-1 [installed] extra/networkmanager-qt 6.22.0-1 (kf6) [installed] extra/qrca 25.12.2-1 (kde-applications kde-utilities) [installed] extra/qrencode 4.1.1-4 [installed] extra/prison 6.22.0-1 (kf6) [installed] extra/iwd 3.11-1 [installed]1upvote·2comments
how do the core devs get money and so much free time to contribute? how do the core devs get money and so much free time to contribute?u/ishaan2479•25 days agohow do the core devs get money and so much free time to contribute?QUESTIONthis might be a stupid question, but are these people,https://archlinux.org/people/developers/, getting paid to make contributions and work on arch? and if not, how do they find the time outside there full-time jobs to do so?
How many arch user don't use aur at all? How many arch user don't use aur at all?u/Big-Meet3509•3 days agoHow many arch user don't use aur at all?QUESTIONHi, I've switched to arch linux recently and been liking it so far, but I didn't touch aur yet simply because I know the potential risks of not examining user submited software packages. I wonder if I should even bother installing aur helper like yay, simply because I'm too lazy to check pkgbuild every time I want to install from aur and if install yay I will be more inclined to use aur and one day might install malicious package because I was too lazy to read. But on the other hand only using official packages doesn't cover all of my needs in software and I think it's pretty common. I was also considering adding repositories of other arch-based distros to my pacman instead to extend the number of packages. What do you think about that? And do you personally use aur and to what extent?
[Help] Matebook ESSX8336 Audio: Speakers not muting when headphones are plugged in (Arch Linux, Kernel 6.19) [Help] Matebook ESSX8336 Audio: Speakers not muting when headphones are plugged in (Arch Linux, Kernel 6.19)u/Nearby_Meringue_6365•2 days ago[Help] Matebook ESSX8336 Audio: Speakers not muting when headphones are plugged in (Arch Linux, Kernel 6.19)SUPPORTHello everyone,I'm struggling with the infamous ESSX8336 (ES8336) audio chip on my Huawei Matebook (HUAWEI-BOD_WXX9) running Arch Linux.Problem: When I plug in headphones, audio plays through BOTH the speakers and the headphones simultaneously. When I unplug the headphones, the system sometimes fails to switch back properly, or I have to manually toggle controls.System Info:- Kernel: 6.19.0-rc8-1-cachyos-rc- Sound Server: PipeWire 1.4.10 / WirePlumber 1.4.10- Audio Card: sof-essx8336- UCM2: Using Intel/sof-essx8336/HiFi.confWhat I've tried:Editing UCM2 HiFi.conf: Added EnableSequence/DisableSequence with 'Speaker Switch' and 'Headphone' controls.WirePlumber Rules: Tried forcing api.alsa.use-ucm = true in 51-force-ucm.conf, but wpctl status still shows "stereo-fallback" profile instead of dedicated Headphone/Speaker nodes.Manual amixer toggling: `amixer -c 0 cset name='Speaker Switch' off` reports success but doesn't actually mute the physical speakers.I am currently NOT using any kernel quirks (snd_soc_sof_8336.quirk=...) and would prefer to fix this via UCM/PipeWire if possible, but I'm open to suggestions if quirks are the only way for this specific board.The main issue seems to be that PipeWire/WirePlumber isn't picking up the UCM2 profiles correctly, even though `alsaucm -c hw:0 reload` passes without errors now.Does anyone have a working HiFi.conf or WirePlumber policy for this specific Huawei BOD_WXX9 board? Or is this a known GPIO routing issue that requires a specific kernel quirk?Thanks in advance!
Some issue during install caeleatia profile Some issue during install caeleatia profileu/7amoksha266•2 days agoSome issue during install caeleatia profileQUESTIONHello,I was downloading caelestia and after the installation when type my password at sddm interface it become black and return to sddm login pageHow I can solve this issue?
Decman - a declarative package & configuration manager for Arch Linux - stable version released Decman - a declarative package & configuration manager for Arch Linux - stable version releasedu/_TimeUnit•5 days agoDecman - a declarative package & configuration manager for Arch Linux - stable version releasedSHARESince my lastpost2 years ago,decmanhas improved a ton and reached version 1. The core features of decman remain the same, but many bugs have been fixed, UX is better and decman is way more extensible.Decman is used to manage your Arch Linux installation declaratively. You define packages (AUR packages supported), config files and systemd units with Python. Decman then ensures that your declared state matches with the system.Here is a very simple example:import decman  from decman import File, Directory  # Declare installed pacman packages decman.pacman.packages |= {"base", "linux", "linux-firmware", "networkmanager", "ufw", "neovim"}  # Declare installed aur packages decman.aur.packages |= {"decman"}  # Declare configuration files # Inline decman.files["/etc/vconsole.conf"] = File(content="KEYMAP=us")  # From files within your source repository # (full path here would be /home/user/config/dotfiles/pacman.conf) decman.files["/etc/pacman.conf"] = File(source_file="./dotfiles/pacman.conf")  # Declare a whole directory decman.directories["/home/user/.config/nvim"] = Directory(source_directory="./dotfiles/nvim", owner="user")  # Ensure that a systemd unit is enabled. decman.systemd.enabled_units |= {"NetworkManager.service"}In addition, decman can managesymlinks,users,flatpaksand evenimported PGP keys(since you may have to import keys for some AUR packages). If you have somecustom PKGBUILDs, you can even use them with decman. Your configuration can be cleanly split intomodulesthat you enable or disable as required.Check out decman onGitHub, install it from theAUR, and check out thetutorial for getting started.If you don't feel comfortable using Python or starting from scratch with your config intimidates you, I recommend you check outaconfmgr.
Why do you think Arch has been so sucsessful? Why do you think Arch has been so sucsessful?u/Retr0r0cketVersion2•1 mo. agoWhy do you think Arch has been so sucsessful?DISCUSSIONIn terms of more advanced distros, Arch is by far the most popular compared to options like Void, Gentoo, or NixOS. I'm wondering what people's specific takes are on why this has been the case.Personally, I'd say it's because Arch's KISS-like (limited exceptions to KISS when it is massively beneficial with little to no downside) philosophy makes it easily customizable and but without requiring too much work to enable the overwhelming majority of customization. Also the wiki is world class
What's everyone's preferred bootloader setup? What's everyone's preferred bootloader setup?u/Retr0r0cketVersion2•26 days agoWhat's everyone's preferred bootloader setup?DISCUSSIONI've used everything between GRUB, systemd-boot, efistub w/ UKIs, and limine. Now that I'm working on a custom bootloader, I'm wondering what the Arch community as a whole likes to use, why they use it, what they've tried before.Edit: before anyone asks, I'll release the bootloader when I'm done and I'll probably add it to the AUR. Also bonus points if you do anything weird with your initramfs
Pacx | Little hobby project Pacx | Little hobby projectu/AbdurRehman04•2 days agoPacx | Little hobby projectSHAREHello everyone,I am writing a pacman wrapper in C, taking inspiration from powerpill. The main purpose of doing this is to learn C. I have completed some part of it. It only downloads the packages for now, and saves them in the /usr/share/pacx/cache/ directory. There are two working arguments (-S and -Su).I am sharing this here so that I could get some guidance and tips from others. Please, let me know about your thoughts.Thanks for reading this.Github Repo:https://github.com/abdurehmanimran/pacx
[Help] Pipo W1s (Cherry Trail) - Black screen (backlight on) when i915.modeset=1 [Help] Pipo W1s (Cherry Trail) - Black screen (backlight on) when i915.modeset=1u/Angeltaz6•8 hr. ago[Help] Pipo W1s (Cherry Trail) - Black screen (backlight on) when i915.modeset=1SUPPORTHi everyone,I'm struggling to get hardware acceleration working on a Pipo W1s tablet (Intel Atom x5-Z8300 Cherry Trail). Currently, I can only get a GUI using i915.modeset=0, which forces llvmpipe and makes the system painfully slow for video playback.The Problem:When I set i915.modeset=1, the screen stays black but the backlight is clearly ON. The system seems to boot in the background, but no image is rendered.Hardware Details:CPU: Intel Atom x5-Z8300.Kernel: linux-lts (also tested with current linux).Display: Detected as Unknown-1 (connected) in /sys/class/drm/card0-Unknown-1.Everything I've tried so far (GRUB parameters):Forcing panel name: video=Unknown-1:800x1280@60:e (and also tried DSI-1, eDP-1, VGA-1).Power management workarounds: i915.enable_psr=0, i915.enable_fbc=0.Boot & Sync fixes: i915.fastboot=1/0, i915.panel_use_ssc=0, i915.enable_dpcd_backlight=1.Rotation & Backlight: fbcon=rotate:1, i915.panel_ignore_lid=1.Early Loading: Added i915 to MODULES=() in mkinitcpio.conf and regenerated.BIOS/UEFI: This tablet has a 32-bit UEFI with a 64-bit OS.Current State:The only way to get an image is i915.modeset=0. Without acceleration, YouTube and general UI are unusable. It seems like a VBT (Video BIOS Table) mismatch or a specific DSI panel handshake issue.Does anyone have a working GRUB line or a custom EDID/VBT fix for this specific Pipo model?Thanks in advance!
double monitor setup issue double monitor setup issueu/Qtasisko•2 days agodouble monitor setup issueSUPPORTHello, i just installed arch and I'm having trouble getting both monitors to work, I've tried a bunch of stuff and I'm a bit lost.as for things that might be relevant to solving this, one monitor is my laptops screen and the other is an external monitor, im using kde plasma and Wayland, my laptop has both a dedicated gpu and a integrated one. linux doesn't seem to even see my other monitor (in the settings or using xrandr) but when i turn it on i get that pop-up asking me if i wanna use only one of the monitors or whether to extend to the left or right but clicking any of those doesn't do anything. if i did a very obvious or stupid mistake, my apologies, i just installed arch yesterday 😅
Does anyone know what happened to gcc-libs? Why was it broken to smaller packages? Does anyone know what happened to gcc-libs? Why was it broken to smaller packages?u/ZoWakaki•1 day agoDoes anyone know what happened to gcc-libs? Why was it broken to smaller packages?QUESTION[Answered from the comments: According tothisissue, it was mainly to make making initrd lighter easier.]While I was upgrading today, I noticed thatgcc-libslost about 150MB and few new packages were pulled :libatomic, libgfortran, libgcc, libgomp, liblsan, libobjc, libquadmath, libstdc++, libtsan, libubsanI assume gcc-libs was broken down? Does anyone know the story behind this? I couldn't find much information with my level of google-fu (which is apparently not upto par).I understand that breaking the packages makes it easier to manage, helps streamline updates, resolve conflict and all that good jazz. I am trying to understand if there was specific reason.If you updated but didn't notice, and want to notice, this is the list:pacman -Q | grep g0b99615a8aef
Help with setting up ViroReact on Arch Linux. Help with setting up ViroReact on Arch Linux.u/Noob0D0Pro•2 days agoHelp with setting up ViroReact on Arch Linux.QUESTIONI am not that good with Arch Linux, and it is the first linux OS that I am learning. Well, my issue is that I am building an App for Andriod with React Native and I want to add an AR feature for this App. Since Google AR Core won't work with React Native, I will use ViroReact. The thing is that it is not working, i research a lil and it seems like it needs an Andriod SDK and maybe I should use something else other than Expo Go. Can anybody help me setup ViroReact on React Native?
I released my PDF reader in the AUR I released my PDF reader in the AURu/dheerajshenoy22•27 days agoI released my PDF reader in the AURSHAREHi everyone, I am happy to share thatdodo, pdf reader I created, is on the AUR now. I created it because I wanted features that were missing in other pdf readers like showing a marker after you jump to a page when you click on a link, easy configuration (dodo uses TOML) etc.AUR package:dodo-pdf-reader-gitThere's alsododo-bin(thanks to Rafael Dominiquini)Homepage:https://dheerajshenoy.github.io/dodoGitHub:https://github.com/dheerajshenoy/dodoSuggestions are appreciated!
OpenMeters: fast and professional audio visualization for Linux. Now on the AUR. OpenMeters: fast and professional audio visualization for Linux. Now on the AUR.u/httpsworldview•7 days agoOpenMeters: fast and professional audio visualization for Linux. Now on the AUR.SHAREhttps://github.com/httpsworldview/openmeters
Updating multiple Arch VMs and machines. Updating multiple Arch VMs and machines.u/bigh-aus•3 days agoUpdating multiple Arch VMs and machines.QUESTIONBeen running arch on my desktop and laptop for a few years now. Generally I update once per week with minimal issues (had to chroot once on my desktop). I've recently been deploying more vms from my arch snapshot, and updating 2 machines plus 5VMs is starting to get annoying.Packages are somewhat synchronized - desktop and laptop are close, and vms have a subset (eg there's no gui packages).What I was thinking is a few possible approaches:Script that runs on my main trusted machine to log into each vm - run my update script starting with the least important machine and fail on the first error (possibly even deploy a canary VM, reboot it and check it works) then progress through the list.I run a CI/CD pipeline at home - So could automate that too - which would cover me if I was away from my desktop.systemd timers to run missed jobs but this would be harder to do one at a time.develop something custom - eg an agent running on each machine to avoid ssh and a user with nopassword sudo.(I know this has been covered in the past, but I wanted to see people's thoughts in 2026)another thought is to only have the VMs auto update, and manually do the desktop / laptop.I also run a pacoloco server locally so I'm not hitting the mirrors 7 times =)
Switched To KDE from Gnome Switched To KDE from Gnomeu/Empty_Wheale_7988•23 days agoSwitched To KDE from GnomeSHAREI have been using gnome for more then 2 years . I loved gnome and supported it as much as I can . But I have to say some things just don't work on gnome . For some essential feature I have to use extension and they almost break after every update . (And I don't like using random third party extension .)I am loving krunner and its search results . I am exploring kde and lets see how it goes.
Niri and swayidle Niri and swayidleu/Stunning-Mix492•3 days agoNiri and swayidleSUPPORTNiri and swayidler/niri•3 days agoNiri and swayidleHi all,I'm using this in my config.kdl :spawn-at-startup "swayidle" "-w" \     "timeout" "270" "brightnessctl -s ; brightnessctl set 10%" \     "timeout" "300" "qs -c noctalia-shell ipc call lockScreen lock && niri msg action power-off-monitors" \     "timeout" "900" "systemctl suspend" \     "resume" "brightnessctl -r ; niri msg action power-on-monitors" \     "before-sleep" "qs -c noctalia-shell ipc call lockScreen lock && niri msg action power-off-monitors"But, when the screen is dimmed after 270s, I'd like to restore the original brightness on mouse move or keyboard stroke. I'd supposed it was the resume parameter but it does not work...Any idea ?9upvotes·10comments
Few questions Few questionsu/Odenssi96•9 hr. agoFew questionsQUESTIONi got a Lenovo Legion laptop with windows and i absolutly hate it. every update annoys me soooo much. i use Arch on my main pc but it has very diffrent specs and my server is running alsp linux so im not new to.this but what i kinda wonder how is nvidia with rtx theese days? also does Arch support Mullvad vpn? cant seem to get it to work.So my question is :RTX and Arch?SMB support?Zimaos program?any other downsides?
Zen Browser Crashing and DKMS Not Copying Zen Browser Crashing and DKMS Not Copyingu/Objective-Stranger99•3 days agoZen Browser Crashing and DKMS Not CopyingSUPPORTHello everyone! I currently have 2 persistent issues in my setup:Zen Browser is crashing when attempting file upload or download on any website:This wasn't occurring a week or two back, and it also appears on a new, fresh profile.zen-browser ─╯ [Parent 364422, Main Thread] WARNING: Could not load a pixbuf from icon theme. This may indicate that pixbuf loaders or the mime database could not be found.: 'glib warning', file /home/ubuntu/actions-runner/_work/desktop/desktop/engine/toolkit/xre/nsSigHandlers.cpp:201   (zen:364422): Gtk-WARNING **: 17:49:32.823: Could not load a pixbuf from icon theme. This may indicate that pixbuf loaders or the mime database could not be found. ** Gtk:ERROR:../gtk/gtk/gtkiconhelper.c:495:ensure_surface_for_gicon: assertion failed (error == NULL): Failed to load /usr/share/icons/Adwaita/scalable/status/image-missing.svg: Loader process exited early with status '1'Command: "bwrap" "--unshare-all" "--die-with-parent" "--chdir" "/" "--ro-bind" "/usr" "/usr" "--dev" "/dev" "--ro-bind-try" "/etc/ld.so.cache" "/etc/ld.so.cache" "--ro-bind-try" "/nix/store" "/nix/store" "--tmpfs" "/tmp-home" "--tmpfs" "/tmp-run" "--clearenv" "--setenv" "HOME" "/tmp-home" "--setenv" "XDG_RUNTIME_DIR" "/tmp-run" "--setenv" "XDG_RUNTIME_DIR" "/run/user/1000" "--symlink" "/usr/lib" "/lib" "--symlink" "/usr/lib" "/lib64" "--ro-bind-try" "/etc/fonts/conf.d" "/etc/fonts/conf.d" "--ro-bind-try" "/etc/fonts/fonts.conf" "/etc/fonts/fonts.conf" "--ro-bind-try" "/home/sudar/.cache/fontconfig" "/home/sudar/.cache/fontconfig" "--ro-bind-try" "/home/sudar/.fontconfig" "/home/sudar/.fontconfig" "--ro-bind-try" "/home/sudar/.local/share/fonts" "/home/sudar/.local/share/fonts" "--ro-bind-try" "/var/cache/fontconfig" "/var/cache/fontconfig" "--bind-try" "/home/sudar/.cache/glycin/usr/lib/glycin-loaders/2+/glycin-svg" "/home/sudar/.cache/glycin/usr/lib/glycin-loaders/2+/glycin-svg" "--setenv" "XDG_CACHE_HOME" "/home/sudar/.cache/glycin/usr/lib/glycin-loaders/2+/glycin-svg" "--seccomp" "199" "/usr/lib/glycin-loaders/2+/glycin-svg" "--dbus-fd" "197" (gdk-pixbuf-error-quark, 0) Bail out! Gtk:ERROR:../gtk/gtk/gtkiconhelper.c:495:ensure_surface_for_gicon: assertion failed (error == NULL): Failed to load /usr/share/icons/Adwaita/scalable/status/image-missing.svg: Loader process exited early with status '1'Command: "bwrap" "--unshare-all" "--die-with-parent" "--chdir" "/" "--ro-bind" "/usr" "/usr" "--dev" "/dev" "--ro-bind-try" "/etc/ld.so.cache" "/etc/ld.so.cache" "--ro-bind-try" "/nix/store" "/nix/store" "--tmpfs" "/tmp-home" "--tmpfs" "/tmp-run" "--clearenv" "--setenv" "HOME" "/tmp-home" "--setenv" "XDG_RUNTIME_DIR" "/tmp-run" "--setenv" "XDG_RUNTIME_DIR" "/run/user/1000" "--symlink" "/usr/lib" "/lib" "--symlink" "/usr/lib" "/lib64" "--ro-bind-try" "/etc/fonts/conf.d" "/etc/fonts/conf.d" "--ro-bind-try" "/etc/fonts/fonts.conf" "/etc/fonts/fonts.conf" "--ro-bind-try" "/home/sudar/.cache/fontconfig" "/home/sudar/.cache/fontconfig" "--ro-bind-try" "/home/sudar/.fontconfig" "/home/sudar/.fontconfig" "--ro-bind-try" "/home/sudar/.local/share/fonts" "/home/sudar/.local/share/fonts" "--ro-bind-try" "/var/cache/fontconfig" "/var/cache/fontconfig" "--bind-try" "/home/sudar/.cache/glycin/usr/lib/glycin-loaders/2+/glycin-svg" "/home/sudar/.cache/glycin/usr/lib/glycin-loaders/2+/glycin-svg" "--setenv" "XDG_CACHE_HOME" "/home/sudar/.cache/glycin/usr/lib/glycin-loaders/2+/glycin-svg" "--seccomp" "199" "/usr/lib/glycin-loaders/2+/glycin-svg" "--dbus-fd" "197" (gdk-pixbuf-error-quark, 0) Redirecting call to abort() to mozalloc_abort   Exiting due to channel error. Exiting due to channel error. Exiting due to channel error. Exiting due to channel error. zsh: segmentation fault (core dumped) zen-browser2. DKMS modules not copying:I am using the nvidia-580xx-dkms from the cachyos repos, but I have manually added the repos on vanilla Arch, and am not using cachyos. I am using the Zen kernel, and this issue appears whenever there is an NVIDIA driver update. I have not modified any mount points (i.e., setting /var on a separate file system), and I only have 1 root and one /EFI partition.:: Running post-transaction hooks... ( 1/11) Creating system user accounts... ( 2/11) Reloading system manager configuration... ( 3/11) Restarting marked services... ( 4/11) Reloading device manager configuration... ( 5/11) Arming ConditionNeedsUpdate... ( 6/11) Install DKMS modules ==> dkms install --no-depmod nvidia/580.126.09 -k 6.18.8-zen2-1-zen mv: cannot move '/usr/lib/modules/6.18.8-zen2-1-zen/updates/dkms/nvidia.ko.zst' to '/var/lib/dkms/nvidia/original_module/6.18.8-zen2-1-zen/x86_64/nvidia.ko.zst': Read-only file system cp: cannot remove '/usr/lib/modules/6.18.8-zen2-1-zen/updates/dkms/nvidia.ko.zst': Read-only file system  Error! Copying '/var/lib/dkms/nvidia/580.126.09/6.18.8-zen2-1-zen/x86_64/module/nvidia.ko.zst' failed ==> WARNING: `dkms install --no-depmod nvidia/580.126.09 -k 6.18.8-zen2-1-zen' exited 6 ==> dkms install --no-depmod nvidia/580.126.09 -k 6.18.9-zen1-1-zen mv: cannot move '/usr/lib/modules/6.18.9-zen1-1-zen/updates/dkms/nvidia.ko.zst' to '/var/lib/dkms/nvidia/original_module/6.18.9-zen1-1-zen/x86_64/nvidia.ko.zst': Read-only file system cp: cannot remove '/usr/lib/modules/6.18.9-zen1-1-zen/updates/dkms/nvidia.ko.zst': Read-only file system  Error! Copying '/var/lib/dkms/nvidia/580.126.09/6.18.9-zen1-1-zen/x86_64/module/nvidia.ko.zst' failed ==> WARNING: `dkms install --no-depmod nvidia/580.126.09 -k 6.18.9-zen1-1-zen' exited 6 ==> dkms install --no-depmod nvidia/580.126.09 -k 6.18.9-zen1-2-zen |==> depmod 6.18.9-zen1-2-zen ( 7/11) Updating linux initcpios... ==> Building image from preset: /etc/mkinitcpio.d/linux-zen.preset: 'default' ==> Using default configuration file: '/etc/mkinitcpio.conf'   -> -k /boot/vmlinuz-linux-zen -U /efi/EFI/Linux/shimx64.efi --splash /usr/share/systemd/bootctl/splash-arch.bmp ==> Starting build: '6.18.9-zen1-2-zen'   -> Running build hook: [base]   -> Running build hook: [systemd]   -> Running build hook: [autodetect]   -> Running build hook: [microcode]   -> Running build hook: [modconf]   -> Running build hook: [kms]   -> Running build hook: [keyboard]   -> Running build hook: [keymap]   -> Running build hook: [sd-vconsole]   -> Running build hook: [block]   -> Running build hook: [filesystems]   -> Running build hook: [fsck] ==> Generating module dependencies ==> Creating zstd-compressed initcpio image   -> Early uncompressed CPIO image generation successful ==> Initcpio image generation successful ==> Creating unified kernel image: '/efi/EFI/Linux/shimx64.efi' ==> Unified kernel image generation successful ==> Running post hooks   -> Running post hook: [REFInd.sh] Signing Unsigned original image ==> Post processing done ( 8/11) Reloading system bus configuration... ( 9/11) Configuring Symlinks Based on firecfg.config... (10/11) zsh.hook (11/11) Performing snapper post snapshots for the following configurations... ==> root: 2363It would be great if I could get these two issues resolved.Mounts (with Docker volumes removed for readability):mount | rg -vi docker                                                        ─╯ 1:/dev/sda2 on / type btrfs (rw,relatime,compress=lzo,ssd_spread,discard=async,space_cache=v2,subvolid=5,subvol=/) 2:devtmpfs on /dev type devtmpfs (rw,nosuid,size=16197916k,nr_inodes=4049479,mode=755,inode64) 3:tmpfs on /dev/shm type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,inode64,usrquota) 4:devpts on /dev/pts type devpts (rw,nosuid,noexec,relatime,gid=5,mode=600,ptmxmode=000) 5:sysfs on /sys type sysfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime) 6:securityfs on /sys/kernel/security type securityfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime) 7:cgroup2 on /sys/fs/cgroup type cgroup2 (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,nsdelegate,memory_recursiveprot,memory_hugetlb_accounting) 8:none on /sys/fs/pstore type pstore (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime) 9:efivarfs on /sys/firmware/efi/efivars type efivarfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime) 10:bpf on /sys/fs/bpf type bpf (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,mode=700) 11:proc on /proc type proc (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime) 12:tmpfs on /run type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,size=6505084k,nr_inodes=819200,mode=755,inode64) 13:systemd-1 on /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc type autofs (rw,relatime,fd=38,pgrp=1,timeout=0,minproto=5,maxproto=5,direct,pipe_ino=12362) 14:debugfs on /sys/kernel/debug type debugfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime) 15:hugetlbfs on /dev/hugepages type hugetlbfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,relatime,pagesize=2M) 16:mqueue on /dev/mqueue type mqueue (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime) 17:configfs on /sys/kernel/config type configfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime) 18:tracefs on /sys/kernel/tracing type tracefs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime) 19:fusectl on /sys/fs/fuse/connections type fusectl (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime) 20:tmpfs on /home/sudar/.config/CopyQ type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,size=51200k,inode64,user) 21:tmpfs on /home/sudar/Videos type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,size=5242880k,inode64,user) 22:tmpfs on /tmp type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,size=16262712k,nr_inodes=1048576,inode64,usrquota) 23:tmpfs on /var/cache type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,size=3145728k,mode=755,inode64) 24:/dev/sdc7 on /mnt/DVR type ext4 (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,user) 25:none on /run/credentials/systemd-resolved.service type tmpfs (ro,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,nosymfollow,size=1024k,nr_inodes=1024,mode=700,inode64,noswap) 26:/dev/sda1 on /efi type vfat (rw,relatime,fmask=0022,dmask=0022,codepage=437,iocharset=ascii,shortname=mixed,utf8,errors=remount-ro) 28:/dev/sdc4 on /var/lib/ollama type ext4 (rw,relatime) 29:/dev/sdb3 on /mnt/RootBackup type btrfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,compress=zstd:15,discard=async,space_cache=v2,subvolid=5,subvol=/,user) 30:/dev/sdb4 on /mnt/Photos type btrfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,compress=lzo,discard=async,space_cache=v2,subvolid=5,subvol=/,user) 31:/dev/sdb5 on /mnt/DVRBKS type btrfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,compress=zstd:15,discard=async,space_cache=v2,subvolid=5,subvol=/,user) 32:/dev/sdb1 on /mnt/Backups type ext4 (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,user) 33:/dev/sdb6 on /mnt/Old Backups type btrfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,compress=zstd:15,discard=async,space_cache=v2,subvolid=5,subvol=/,user) 34:none on /run/credentials/systemd-journald.service type tmpfs (ro,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,nosymfollow,size=1024k,nr_inodes=1024,mode=700,inode64,noswap) 35:tmpfs on /run/user/1000 type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,relatime,size=3252540k,nr_inodes=813135,mode=700,uid=1000,gid=1000,inode64) 36:binfmt_misc on /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc type binfmt_misc (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime) 37:gvfsd-fuse on /run/user/1000/gvfs type fuse.gvfsd-fuse (rw,nosuid,nodev,relatime,user_id=1000,group_id=1000) 38:portal on /run/user/1000/doc type fuse.portal (rw,nosuid,nodev,relatime,user_id=1000,group_id=1000) 39:tmpfs on /run/firejail/dbus type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,size=6505084k,nr_inodes=819200,mode=755,inode64) 40:tmpfs on /run/firejail/firejail.ro.dir type tmpfs (ro,nosuid,nodev,size=6505084k,nr_inodes=819200,mode=755,inode64) 41:tmpfs on /run/firejail/firejail.ro.file type tmpfs (ro,nosuid,nodev,size=6505084k,nr_inodes=819200,mode=755,inode64) 42:/dev/sdc6 on /mnt/Data type btrfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,compress=zstd:15,ssd_spread,discard=async,space_cache=v2,subvolid=5,subvol=/,user) 81:Beeper-4.2.532-x86_64.AppImage on /tmp/.mount_BeeperhgyPPS type fuse.Beeper-4.2.532-x86_64.AppImage (ro,nosuid,nodev,relatime,user_id=1000,group_id=1000)LSBLK:lsblk                                                                        ─╯ NAME   MAJ:MIN RM   SIZE RO TYPE MOUNTPOINTS sda      8:0    0 476.9G  0 disk ├─sda1   8:1    0     5G  0 part /efi └─sda2   8:2    0 471.9G  0 part / sdb      8:16   0 931.5G  0 disk ├─sdb1   8:17   0  97.7G  0 part /mnt/Backups ├─sdb2   8:18   0 156.3G  0 part ├─sdb3   8:19   0 220.5G  0 part /mnt/RootBackup ├─sdb4   8:20   0 195.3G  0 part /mnt/Photos ├─sdb5   8:21   0  97.7G  0 part /mnt/DVRBKS └─sdb6   8:22   0  97.7G  0 part /mnt/Old Backups sdc      8:32   0 476.9G  0 disk ├─sdc1   8:33   0  48.8G  0 part ├─sdc2   8:34   0   100M  0 part ├─sdc3   8:35   0   128M  0 part ├─sdc4   8:36   0  85.7G  0 part /var/lib/ollama ├─sdc5   8:37   0  48.8G  0 part /mnt/docker ├─sdc6   8:38   0  48.8G  0 part /mnt/Data └─sdc7   8:39   0  48.8G  0 part /mnt/DVR sdd      8:48   1     0B  0 disk sr0     11:0    1  1024M  0 rom
Can't remove some files from my system Can't remove some files from my systemu/Apoema•4 days agoCan't remove some files from my systemSUPPORT | SOLVEDI am trying to remove this bankingsecurity softwaremalware from my system but nothing seems to work.The package that installed is already gone but the files are still there.sudo rm -rf /usr/lib/warsawreturns "Operation not permitted". I even tried to boot on a liveusb, mount my hard drive but got the same message.Any suggestion of what I could do?
Headset not connected probably Headset not connected probablyu/Ill_Impression_1285•7 days agoHeadset not connected probablySUPPORTI'm using moondrop golden ages 2 and everytime I'm trying to connect it in the first 10m after boot it just connected in 1s then disconnected immediately. it has just happened only with the moondrop one. what can I do now ?
Can't mount EFI partition after system update. Can't mount EFI partition after system update.u/7O69•11 hr. agoCan't mount EFI partition after system update.SUPPORT | SOLVEDHello! Was removing windows from my disc yesterday with gparted, and I ended up having to move my EFI partition for the purpose of reallocating space. Ran a system update today, and things worked fine until I rebooted. Now I can't connect to the internet, and am completely unable to mount my EFI partition to /mnt/boot.When I run the following:sudo mount /dev/nvme0n1p5 /mnt/bootit outputs:mount: /mnt/boot: unknown filesystem type 'vfat'.dmesg may have more information after failed mount system call.Thanks!
Bluetooth earbuds work in Windows but break in Arch after switching OS (need to forget device, then not detected) Bluetooth earbuds work in Windows but break in Arch after switching OS (need to forget device, then not detected)u/niranjand0•7 days agoBluetooth earbuds work in Windows but break in Arch after switching OS (need to forget device, then not detected)SUPPORTI’m dual-booting Arch Linux and Windows on the same machine.Scenario:I connect my Bluetooth earbuds in Arch → works perfectlyI reboot into Windows → earbuds connect and work fineI reboot back into Arch → earbuds refuse to connectAt this point I have to remove/forget the device. After forgetting it, the earbuds often don’t even show up when scanning anymore.I’m using Blueman Manager with BlueZ.Things I’ve tried:Restarting bluetooth.serviceRebootingForgetting and re-pairing (when it actually appears)Still happens consistently after switching from Windows back to Arch.
Ditching Windows 👋 Ditching Windows 👋u/b8h0v3n•1 mo. agoDitching Windows 👋QUESTIONHello there!I‘m really fed up with Windows and all of the Microsoft „features“ getting shoved down my throat. So I decided to switch to arch as my daily driver.Because I‘m quite the opposite of a Linux demigod, I‘m 100% sure that I‘ll brick my os eventually.Are there any measures I can take, so that fixing my system  is a bit less painful? I‘ve already read the archwiki-maintenance page, but maybe you guys have some additional advice.(I hope this isnt a stupid question)Thanks!
KDE plasma Audio not working: Connection to the sound service lost KDE plasma Audio not working: Connection to the sound service lostu/ObviousSuccotash8106•8 days agoKDE plasma Audio not working: Connection to the sound service lostSUPPORTi originally planned trying to ask this question on the Arch forum but im not able to answer the question on the bottom (seems like I AM AI).im currently installing arch linux for the first time and i dont have other users yet because i want to get everything running before i use it for daily useif i understood everything pipewire is needed for audio to runwhen i check status with systemctl it says pipewire is inactive (dead), preset is enabled but it is disabledif i try to restart wireplumber with systemctl it says dependency job failedpactl info says pa_context_connect() failed: connection refusedbesides that i tried to reinstall pipewire, wireplumber and plasma-pa but nothing worked so faryou guys have any idea what i can do to resolve the issue?
A declarative & modular approach to Arch (DCLI) A declarative & modular approach to Arch (DCLI)u/TheBlckDon•21 days agoA declarative & modular approach to Arch (DCLI)SHAREhttps://gitlab.com/theblackdon/dcli
Zathura not detecting page-up and page-down anymore after updating. mpv giving me black when fullscreen. Helppp Zathura not detecting page-up and page-down anymore after updating. mpv giving me black when fullscreen. Helpppu/NecessaryEvent901•8 days agoZathura not detecting page-up and page-down anymore after updating. mpv giving me black when fullscreen. HelpppSUPPORT | SOLVEDAs the title said, after a recent update last night; zathura doesn't detect my page-up and page-down anymore. like the bottom where you press it and well it snaps to the next page.and i can't seem to figure it outand i have another problem with mpv video player. whenever i play a video. it works normally til i tried to fullscreen it. then, a fait gray filter appears and i can't figure out what i did. please helpp 😭Edit: i use hyprland btw! and i use arch btw too ;D
External monitor doesnt work? External monitor doesnt work?u/Ill-Kale-2468•13 hr. agoExternal monitor doesnt work?SUPPORTUp until yesterday, external monitor could be connected to my sister's laptop and it worked. And then it just stopped working. HDMI to VGA doesnt recognize at all and HDMI to DVI-D is all red flickers. And when I connect my laptop to that monitor in either of those two ways, it works normally. We are both Intel+Nvidia (she is RTX 2060 and I am GTX 1650). We both have the latest drivers. What could be the problem and how can it be fixed?
How to change keyboard layout with bindings? What is the best way? I am using Arch + hyprland How to change keyboard layout with bindings? What is the best way? I am using Arch + hyprlandu/Affectionate-Pie5892•13 hr. agoHow to change keyboard layout with bindings? What is the best way? I am using Arch + hyprlandSUPPORT | SOLVEDI thought about just adding the layout on the hyprland.conf file in the input section, like ''kb_layout = br, us'', But I want to change the layout with a bind, like SUPER + SHIFT + SPACE. How do I do that?
change default gpu change default gpuu/Leon_HP•14 hr. agochange default gpuQUESTIONhi, i'm new to linux and built a pc recently. now, i switched from my igpu (amd 9600x) to an intel b580, but it defaults to my igpu (i think, its gpu 0 in cpu-x). how can i switch to my normal gpu?got the informations form cpu-x btw if this is important.thx for all answers
KDE hung for a minute after boot following Feb 4 upgrade KDE hung for a minute after boot following Feb 4 upgradeu/Downtown_War_2169•8 days agoKDE hung for a minute after boot following Feb 4 upgradeSUPPORT | SOLVEDCareful with today's pacman upgrades. KDE hangs after boot for about a minute, then returns to normal. Unsure which package is causing it. Using AMD Radeon integrated graphics in Ryzen 7000 series.EDIT: addingamdgpu.dcdebugmask=0x10 to kernel boot command line to disable panel self-refresh fixed it.
Issues trying to automatically unlock TPM2 key, boot is always failing Issues trying to automatically unlock TPM2 key, boot is always failingu/angourakis•9 days agoIssues trying to automatically unlock TPM2 key, boot is always failingSUPPORT | SOLVEDHi,I have already followed the Arch Wiki and use a bit of search and chatGPT, but I always end up in the same place after trying the changes. The system stops booting and throws me to the emergency mode.I am running Arch with the root partition encrypted with LUKS2 and XFS filesystem. Secure Boot is working fine and the TPM2 slot is created with PCR 0+7.I tried changing the HOOKS on /etc/mkinitcpio.conf fromHOOKS=(base udev autodetect microcode modconf kms keyboard keymap consolefont block encrypt filesystems fsck)toHOOKS=(base systemd autodetect microcode modconf kms keyboard sd-vconsole sd-encrypt block filesystems fsck)AND changing /etc/kernel/cmdline fromcryptdevice=PARTUUID=12382c1a-baa1-488c-be79-d2e941b1c4c1:root root=/dev/mapper/root zswap.enabled=0 rw rootfstype=xfs lockdown=integritytord.luks.name=PARTUUID=12382c1a-baa1-488c-be79-d2e941b1c4c1=root root=/dev/mapper/root zswap.enabled=0 rw rootfstype=xfs lockdown=integrityAnd after the changes, running "mkinitcpio -P" and "bootctl update".However, I get stuck on trying to unlock /dev/mapper and it stays trying to do it for a minute and a half, then fails to emergency mode. Then I have to boot the live ISO to undo the changes.Am I missing something?Thanks!
Minecraft eating up all available ram on arch Minecraft eating up all available ram on archu/Pakuss1337•10 days agoMinecraft eating up all available ram on archQUESTIONHi,I have recently downloaded prism launcher for minecraft and installed some mods for speedrunning the game. Following mods are installed:antigone-1.16.1-2.0.0.jar                              seedqueue-1.6+1.16.1.jar antiresourcereload-5.2.0+1.16.1.jar                    sleepbackground-4.1+1.16.1.jar atum-2.7.1+1.16-1.16.1.jar                             sodium-2.5.1+1.16.1.jar chunkumulator-1.1.1+MC1.16.1.jar                       speedrunapi-2.1+1.16-1.16.1.jar fast-reset-2.4.1+1.16.x.jar                            SpeedRunIGT-16.0+1.16.1.jar forceport-1.3.0.jar                                    standardsettings-2.3+1.16-1.16.1.jar krypton-1.16.1-backport-0.1.3-SNAPSHOT+2021-02-20.jar  starlight-1.3.0+1.16.x-backport-1.1.3.jar lazydfu-0.1.2.jar                                      state-output-1.2.3+1.16-1.18.1.jar lazystronghold-1.1.4+1.16.1.jar                        voyager-1.0.1.jar lithium-1.0+backport-0.6.7+1.16.1.jar                  worldpreview-6.3.1+1.16-1.16.1.jar mcsrfairplay-1.1.4+1.16.1.jarAs for java I am using the zulu8 jdk from aur (but have used graalvm21 and 25 and also openjdk17) with these settings:-XX:+UseG1GC -XX:+ParallelRefProcEnabled -XX:MaxGCPauseMillis=200 -XX:+UnlockExperimentalVMOptions -XX:+DisableExplicitGC -XX:+AlwaysPreTouch -XX:G1NewSizePercent=30 -XX:G1MaxNewSizePercent=40 -XX:G1HeapRegionSize=8M -XX:G1ReservePercent=20 -XX:G1HeapWastePercent=5 -XX:G1MixedGCCountTarget=4 -XX:InitiatingHeapOccupancyPercent=15 -XX:G1MixedGCLiveThresholdPercent=90 -XX:G1RSetUpdatingPauseTimePercent=5 -XX:SurvivorRatio=32 -XX:+PerfDisableSharedMem -XX:MaxTenuringThreshold=1The allocated ram is set (in the launcher) to min. memory: around 5gb and max. memory around 8gbWhen starting Minecraft, I saw the ram (in free -h) go down from 25gb available to around 20gb, which would be fine in this case, as the min. memory was set to around 5gb and after like 10-20 seconds it dropped to 13gb immediately. Then I started generating the worlds in a wall style (so 9 worlds at a time) and the ram started dropping to around 5-6gb free. after choosing a seed and playing for like 10 minutes the ram was literally at 1-2gb and started swapping (I have an 8gb swap mount) and after some time it just oom-killed everything (browser and minecraft). Is there any known fix for that?Also I've tried a different launcher (curseforge) with the same mods and settings and got the same behavior, so I don't think it's launcher dependent. Testing the same settings, same java, same setup on windows works perfectly fine but I don't really want to use windows just to play minecraft.My specs:OS: Arch (+ Hyprland) 6.18.5 kernelGPU: Radeon RX6800XTCPU: Intel I5 12600kfRAM: Corsair 32gb@3500mhz (strange clock but somehow works the best for my system)P.S. I've tried usind jmalloc with minecraft but no luck unfortunately. I also used ZGC instead of g1gc but also nothing.
Xp-pen issues Xp-pen issuesu/ThePinkSweetHeart•10 days agoXp-pen issuesSUPPORTI wasnt sure where to ask so I guess Ill start here first but I was trying to figure out why every time I try and draw with my Artist 24 pro it seems to work for a little bit about 2 minutes give or take but then my pen just stops being picked up I had tried OTD over the Xp pen drivers and neither seem to work as they both seem to create the same issue even with X11 and even on wayland I also use KDE plasma but I guess if a fellow artist could give me a little help that be greatful
FYI firewalld split packages. FYI firewalld split packages.u/AStolenGoose•10 days agoFYI firewalld split packages.DISCUSSIONFYI FirewallD has split packages, make sure to read your output when doing -Syu:( 8/27) upgrading firewalld:: The firewallD components & utilities have now been splitted into different packages:- firewalld: Firewall daemon with D-Bus interface- python-firewall: Python bindings for firewallD- firewall-config: Graphical user interface for firewallD- firewall-applet: Systray applet for firewallD- firewalld-test: FirewallD test suiteMake sure to install the ones you may want / need.New optional dependencies for firewalldfirewall-applet: Systray applet for firewallDfirewall-config: Graphical user interface for firewallD configurationfirewalld-test: firewallD test suiteIf you don't read your output you will no longer get your little applet or any config windows.
I Want to switch from dual boot windows/linux from single os Arch Linux I Want to switch from dual boot windows/linux from single os Arch Linuxu/CoachPrestigious9137•15 hr. agoI Want to switch from dual boot windows/linux from single os Arch LinuxQUESTIONHello, as the title implies i want to switch from my dual boot to arch without breaking anything.  I do not trust enough the LLMs with this kind of stuff and i want to learn to do it myself. Where can i find ressources on how to do it or is there tutorials on how to do it that i can read.
Resolution issues running Arch on a Thinkpad E14 Gen 4 Resolution issues running Arch on a Thinkpad E14 Gen 4u/Asleep_Town9150•10 days agoResolution issues running Arch on a Thinkpad E14 Gen 4SUPPORTI bought a 4th gen E14 second-hand as a replacement for my 3rd gen E14. I thought I'd be smart and put the NVMe from my 3rd gen over to my 4th gen laptop to save myself the troubles of having to redo my entire setup. Everything works as is, but the only thing that troubles me is that the screen resolution refuses to go beyond 1366x768.When using the original NVMe of the 4th with Windows 11 on it, it displayed 1920x1080 without any issues what-so-ever, but I can't even find the option now that I put my 3rd gen NVMe in it.I ought to mention that I have set the resolution accordingly in the grub config file, refreshed grub accordingly, and then restarting my laptop afterwards.There's still much I have yet to learn as a Linux user. Is there a fix I have missed, or am I better off putting back the original NVMe in the 4th Gen E14 and just do a clean reinstall?Edit: I use KDE Plasma 6.5 and KWin (Wayland)
advice on de + tiling extension advice on de + tiling extensionu/Upstairs-Progress311•10 days agoadvice on de + tiling extensionQUESTIONHi! I’ve been using Arch with Hyprland and I liked it, but I realized that what I really like is the tiling and navigating with the keyboard. So I’ve been thinking about just using a DE with a tiling extension like PaperWM (scrolling) or Pop Shell.I wanted to know:Do any of you have this kind of setup?What is your favorite combo (DE + tiling extension)?What are the limitations — how good is it compared to a standalone tiling WM?
It is worth it configuring Secure Boot in Arch? It is worth it configuring Secure Boot in Arch?u/BrightLet2843•6 days agoIt is worth it configuring Secure Boot in Arch?QUESTIONThe title says it. I am those paranoid people who thinks without secure boot will enter 5 rootkits.
How to review an AUR package How to review an AUR packageu/radarvan07•13 days agoHow to review an AUR packageSHAREhttps://bertptrs.nl/2026/01/30/how-to-review-an-aur-package.html
Trying to use Hyprland and KDE Plasma on the same arch linux install Trying to use Hyprland and KDE Plasma on the same arch linux installu/Lovasz4bm•15 hr. agoTrying to use Hyprland and KDE Plasma on the same arch linux installSUPPORTTrying to use Hyprland and KDE Plasma on the same arch linux installr/hyprland•15 hr. agoTrying to use Hyprland and KDE Plasma on the same arch linux installOk so I have finally ditched Windows and went with arch after having dualbooted for a while. I have started with KDE Plasma and SDDM and decided to try Hyprland and since everyone says that you can just change DE/WM whenever I thought why not and installed Hyprland.On the wiki I read that SDDM is supposed to "just work" and so I logged out of KDE and switched to Hyprland. Upon logging in I just saw my KDE environment again. Trying to start Hyprland via start-hyprland in TTY works just fine but via SDDM it never works. Or so I thought. On reboot I tried going into Hypr first and that just worked. I then tried logging into KDE which worked too. Just to be sure I tried Hypr again and now it stopped working again. It's as if KDE is preventing Hypr from launching. I tried both Hypr and Hypr (uwsm-managed).Has anyone experienced this before? When I look at peoples tutorials on how to install Hyprland everyone seems to just be able to swap through SDDM.2upvotes
A fast, keyboard-first spreadsheet I built to fill a gap I felt on Arch A fast, keyboard-first spreadsheet I built to fill a gap I felt on Archu/rdoneill•5 days agoA fast, keyboard-first spreadsheet I built to fill a gap I felt on ArchSHAREHey folks,I’ve been on Arch for a while, and one thing that always felt missing was a fast, lightweight spreadsheet that didn’t fight keyboard workflows or take seconds to open.So I built one.VisiGridis a native, local-only spreadsheet app focused on speed and flow:~300ms cold startupKeyboard-first (command palette, vim-style navigation)Works with existing files (XLSX, CSV, ODS, TSV, JSON)Inspectable formulas + dependenciesOptional CLI for scripting / automation (same engine as the GUI)It’s not trying to replace Excel or LibreOffice, more aminimal, fast surface for analysis and quick modeling / opening and playing with fileswithout breaking concentration.Packaging status:Arch (AUR):visigrid-bin(buildable via makepkg)AppImage:availableaarch64 Linux:availableFlatpak:submitted to Flathub (pending approval)Site:https://visigrid.appGitHub:https://github.com/visigrid/visigridI’d genuinely appreciate feedback from Arch users — especially around startup performance, keyboard ergonomics, or anything that feels un-Arch-like.Totally fine if it’s not your thing; just sharing since it solved a real gap in my own setup.
Anyone running Arch on a RISC-V laptop? Anyone running Arch on a RISC-V laptop?u/RobGoLaing•16 hr. agoAnyone running Arch on a RISC-V laptop?QUESTIONI'm thinking of getting a RISC-V based laptop and installing Arch Linux on it.Anyone have experience with this?Some older posts say the RISC-V laptops are still too slow.How do they compare to AMD64-based laptops these days in price and speed?
Can't get SSL Certificate of Arch Wiki? Can't get SSL Certificate of Arch Wiki?u/AnyoneLeftOrRight•4 days agoCan't get SSL Certificate of Arch Wiki?QUESTIONI don't know what's going on withwiki.archlinux.org, but my SSL handshake fails. Regular domainarchlinux.orghas a valid SSL certificate though.Is there something I am not aware of?EDIT: Seems to be back up again, for future me:https://status.archlinux.org/
Problem with MEDIATEK MT7902 Problem with MEDIATEK MT7902u/SuperTiboblh•10 days agoProblem with MEDIATEK MT7902SUPPORT | SOLVEDSo I installed arch Linux offline and now I need WiFi but my MEDIATEK MT7902 gets recognized but NetworkManager doesn't want to work with it. Does someone have a driver or a way to make it work?
Exit status 4 on yay packages Exit status 4 on yay packagesu/lolololloloolmemes•10 days agoExit status 4 on yay packagesSUPPORT | SOLVEDExit status 4 on yay packagesr/arch•15 days agoExit status 4 on yay packagesI have a package called pop-launcher-git and I can’t delete it as it breaks dependencies and I’m not really sure what this package even does and I don’t remember installing it, trying to reinstall doesn’t work and I can’t upgrade my packages for some reason because of it, does anybody know to fix it?1upvote·8comments
Hello i need a lil bit of help fast Hello i need a lil bit of help fastu/MysteriousWallaby455•10 days agoHello i need a lil bit of help fastSUPPORTSoo im trying to install arch linux on my main workstation but after i ran the installer i just get this error “AMD-Vi : Command buffer timeout” does anybody know anything on how to fix this??
I got fed up with protontricks being slow, so I built an alternative I got fed up with protontricks being slow, so I built an alternativeu/Slight_Bed5910•4 days agoI got fed up with protontricks being slow, so I built an alternativeSHAREWhat it says in the title. Since protontricks (winetricks in general) is a slow shell script that has existed for over 15 years, I made a modular alternative in Python with more UX. The GitHub link ishttps://github.com/wojtmic/prefixer, its also up to 40x faster, doesn't start wineserver (yes, I have posted before 2 months ago and deleted the post since, the tool has evolved much)
Building DuckStation locally on Arch Linux (unsupported environment) Building DuckStation locally on Arch Linux (unsupported environment)u/adde9708•2 days agoBuilding DuckStation locally on Arch Linux (unsupported environment)SHAREI wrote up some build notes for DuckStation on Arch/NixOS using local adjustments to DuckStationBuildSummary.cmake (unsupported upstream).https://adde9708.github.io/duckstation-build-notes/
Windows error "Reboot and select proper boot device or insert boot media and selected boot device and press a key" after installing Linux. Windows error "Reboot and select proper boot device or insert boot media and selected boot device and press a key" after installing Linux.u/Street_Hamster9485•11 days agoWindows error "Reboot and select proper boot device or insert boot media and selected boot device and press a key" after installing Linux.SUPPORTSo.. i have a Samsung 970 EVO Pro SSD and a 990 EVO Plus SSD, I had windows 10 on the 970 SSD. then i got another SSD the 990 EVO Plus - and i got windows 11 on it. After some time i decided that it would be a good idea to try out something New so.. I Installed Linux on the 970 SSD where i originally had windows 10, then i booted into linux i of course needed the passwords to: discord, google chrome etc. so i wanted to go back to windows 11(990 Evo plus) But... upon going to The bios i encountered another problem: the windows boot manager didn't show.. so i looked onto the internet did a little of digging and after some time i found out that it works when i Enable CSM so i finally saw it.. Of course there had to be another problem: when i finally tried booting into windows 11 i got flashed with the "Reboot and select proper boot device or insert boot media and selected boot device and press a key" Error.Later I tried going through hours of scrolling through posts and generally stuff about this problem. I tried using the os-prober command but that didn't work UNTIL i went into /etc/default/grub and edited the GRUB_TIMEOUT_STYLE from hidden to menu(so that Grub shows up because it didn't) and GRUB_DISABLE_OS_PROBER=false. Then Grub showed up but without the windows boot manager option so i went through trying countless tutorials on how to add windows boot manager to grub, i went through bios trying everything there is, then i tried lots of commands in linux but Nothing worked So... if anybody has a clue on how to do this i would be really really Grateful.I forgot to add my pc specs: Motherboard: Rog Strix B450-E Gaming Bios Version: 5901. Processor: Amd Ryzen 5 5600X 6 core-processor if that matters.WARNING!!!For anybody Wondering I already fixed this thank you to everybody for their help
new browser new browseru/BiscoitoToDoBR•10 days agonew browserSUPPORTcan someone give me a recommendation of a browser to substitute chrome on arch?? i use chrome for school works, just cause we use google docs, slides, classroom and all that needs to be made with my school account, but using chrome on arch feels wrong, there are a lot of chrome substitutes, like chromium, but i need the best one just for doing that, i made some research and foundtoo firefox, brave, i use tor for buying things online (i dont go to the dark web) but all of them have their own advantagesEDIT: i just decided it will be brave, or i dont
Why use browser to view adult content when it can be done through terminal Why use browser to view adult content when it can be done through terminalu/Cute-Employment5323•10 days agoWhy use browser to view adult content when it can be done through terminalFLUFFWhy use browser to view adult content when it can be done through terminalr/commandline•11 days agoWhy use browser to view adult content when it can be done through terminalI builtpor-cli,a terminal-based video browser inspired by ani-cli, streaming directly fromspankbang,xhamsteretcworks on phone, mac and linux for nowFeatures:Inbuilt proxymode for when the sites are blocked in regionsSearch videosBrowse videos with fzf and have thumbnail previewInstant streaming with mpvpost-play menuNo browser, no ads, no cluttercurrently looking for users who can give feedback and also help in developmentGitHub:https://github.com/por-cli/por-cliBuilt as a fun CLI project. Would love to get some feedbackThank youedit: forgot about mac support164upvotes·117comments
My Long Journey to Arch My Long Journey to Archu/TumblyEgg•6 days agoMy Long Journey to ArchFLUFFHello!I'm still an Arch (and Reddit) newbie, but not with Linux itself. I've dabbled with many different distros since around 2008. My general interest in computers began well before then.I grew up in the tailend of the Win 3.1/MS-DOS days so I wasn't much of a stranger to a command line even back then, albeit not knowing a whole lot at that point.My relationship with Windows (and Adobe) eventually died a death by a thousand cuts, with Windows 11 finishing it off. I was also an on/off Apple user in the past, but eventually I got priced out of their ecosystem.I messed around with distros like Ubuntu and Linux Mint for many years, but they didn't quite hook me enough to fully switch. Then after lurking around Reddit in 2024, I saw someone recommending Fedora to somebody. I tried it myself and that's when the hook finally stuck. It felt fun to use a computer again. I was also extremely impressed with how far Linux gaming had come at that point. I realized after a while I hadn't even booted into Windows for over a month. That's when I knew I was fully won over.Then I somewhat recently began researching the advantages of Arch and Arch-based distros. I eventually tried CachyOS and thoroughly enjoyed it.Then a couple weeks ago I finally made the decision. I took the floaties off and dove right into the deep end of the pool by installing Arch. So far it has been a lot, but the amount of guides available and the amount of information in the Wiki is beyond impressive. I also like that you can morph the system to fit your needs, not the other way around. Yes I have already broken my installation, but have you really used Arch if you never did?In the end I don't know yet if Arch will end my "distro-hopping", but I went with it for reasons well beyond being able to say the meme phrase. I feel it's a good thing to always be learning things and not be afraid to make mistakes. I'm sure I'll make plenty more mistakes with Arch. 😂Anyways, just wanted to share my experiences and hope I can eventually find more meaningful ways to help out in the Linux community.Anyone else have a similar or even a vastly different pathway to get you to eventually try Arch?
Steam doesn't work on Arch Linux (KDE Plasma (Wayland)). Steam doesn't work on Arch Linux (KDE Plasma (Wayland)).u/Charming_Virus_839•10 days agoSteam doesn't work on Arch Linux (KDE Plasma (Wayland)).SUPPORTI installed Steam from the official package manager.sudo pacman -S steamI also tried the yay and flatpak versions, but the problem was the same.At first, it launched, I was able to play games, and everything was fine. The next day, I tried to launch it, and after clicking it, 4-5 seconds passed, and there was no response.I scoured the internet looking for a solution to this problem, tried a lot, but nothing worked.Another interesting thing: Steam launches after a while, but after exiting, the same thing happens again.I've already tried a lot of things, so I can't say for sure. Please give me some recommendations for what I should try if you've encountered anything similar, or if you could ask for any information after completing your command.Thank you in advance for your understanding and assistance.Russian Translate:Установил стим из официального пакетного менеджераsudo pacman -S steamТакже пробовал yay и flatpak версию, проблема та же.Поначалу он запустился, я смог поиграть в игры, все было отлично, на следующий день, попробовал запустить, после клика проходит 4-5 секунд и ноль реакции.Облазил весь интернет в поисках решения подобной проблемы, много чего перепробовал, но ничего не помогло.Еще интересный момент, при запуске, стим через какое-то время (около часа) запускается, но после выхода, опять та же самая история.Я много чего уже попробовал, явно сказать не могу, просьба дать какие-то рекомендации, чтобы я что-то попробовал если вы с таким сталкивались или же можете попросить дать какую-либо информацию, после выполнения вашей команды.Я заранее благодарю за понимание и помощь.
My arch bootloader dissapeared from my bios My arch bootloader dissapeared from my biosu/AnisZoomer•11 days agoMy arch bootloader dissapeared from my biosSUPPORT | SOLVEDso I had a simple manual install of arch in my pc, it was great, but now when i booted to windowsto get some work done is dissapeaed entirely not a single trace of its existance ow to trobleshoot for now? any permanent fix?
What exactly does linux-zen offer? Is it more power-efficient? What exactly does linux-zen offer? Is it more power-efficient?u/Past-Combination6262•1 mo. agoWhat exactly does linux-zen offer? Is it more power-efficient?QUESTIONHi,I've heard people talking about using linux-zen, and while I know i can run both kernels simultaneously, I want to ask what advantages it providesMore specifically, does it save more power than stock linux? I know cpu/gpu specs also affect battery life, so I list them below:lenovo ideapad w/ intel i5 core ultra and intergrated graphicsdoes linux-zen support these well in terms of hardware and power management?Thanks in advance!
Linux Gaming Setup Script Linux Gaming Setup Scriptu/theleninlover•10 days agoLinux Gaming Setup ScriptSHAREI created this script to transform any standard Linux distribution into a 'gaming distro.' It currently supports most major Arch-based distributions, Ubuntu, Zorin, Mint, Fedora, and openSUSE Tumbleweed. If you would like to take a look at it, you can visit the GitHub repository:https://github.com/softwaresocialist/TurboTuxHow to try it out:1. Clone the repositorygit clone https://github.com/softwaresocialist/TurboTux.git cd TurboTux2. Run the scriptchmod +x TurboTux.sh ./TurboTuxsh
How can I fix "can not open access to console the root account is locked" ? How can I fix "can not open access to console the root account is locked" ?u/s4nZo_•11 days agoHow can I fix "can not open access to console the root account is locked" ?SUPPORT | SOLVEDI've tried everything and followed every tutorial I could find, but I just can't resolve the issue. I've manually reinstalled the system 3 times, also carefully following this guide:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FxeriGuJKTM&t=1459sTHIS IS THE ERROR: [ TIME ] Timed out waiting for device /dev/mapper/volgroupB-lv_root. [DEPEND] Dependency failed for Initrd Root Device. [DEPEND] Dependency failed for /sysroot. [DEPEND] Dependency failed for Initrd Root File System. [DEPEND] Dependency failed for File System Êk on /dev/mapper/volgroupB-lv_root. You are in emergency mode. After logging in, tupe "journalctl -xb" to view system logs, "systemctl reboot" to reboot, or "exit" to continue bootup, Cannot open access to console, the root account is locked. See sulogin(8) man page for more details. Press Enter to continue.
Switching from Windows to Arch Switching from Windows to Archu/Altaryan•7 days agoSwitching from Windows to ArchQUESTIONHey everyone !Future-ex windows user here. Last time I used a linux distro (Ubuntu, Fedora mainly and a few others I tried) was around 2010/2011. Had to stay mainly in Windows (dual boot) back then because of gaming, mostly.Now I've decided to get a new laptop (recent Asus Zenbook I'm gonna use for work + personal) and I want more control over my OS - so Linux. Tbf I should have made the switch 5y ago already. If I'm going to switch, why not make it fully and get Arch. For the even more complete control, the full customisation, the community and wiki, AUR, etc.I'm not afraid in the slightest about the installation process, it's just gonna take some time because I'll research every single customisation. Only thing that's bothering me is the rolling release aspect, as I can sometimes spend days or weeks without using my laptop, or have whole periods with limited time for troubleshooting, but I guess I'll see how it goes. Anyways, after reading the wiki, there are a few things I'm not decided on yet :systemd or GRUB : although I don't really see any single use case for GRUB for me.Desktop Environment (which one ?) or full customisation with Xserver, WM, etc ? - I want something light, stable, I basically never change my wallpaper after the first install, and I'm not sure I need advanced features and pre-installed apps : I'd rather pick what I need and is "straight to the point", but I'm afraid a custom DE might be a lot of work and more likely to break at some point.if going the custom way, X11 or Wayland ?any recommendation for a simple stacking WM ?Any recommendations on software that might not be present in the wiki - general recommendations is very welcome !About the rolling release specifically, a few questions:I guess it's better to do it every 1-2 days ? How bad is it to spend a month not doing it ?I guess there must be a single command that updates everything ?Any way to "automate" the update ? (Not necessarily blindly, ofc, but a reminder, or script of some kind that at least tells me there is something that needs updating?)Thanks !
Can’t open nvim in kitty regularly Can’t open nvim in kitty regularlyu/lolololloloolmemes•19 hr. agoCan’t open nvim in kitty regularlySUPPORTso a couple months ago I had an issue with nvim opening in gnome terminal instead of kitty, I did manage to resolve it a .desktop file however now it’s happening again, I’ve already tried my steps but it does absolutely  nothing so I’m wondering if like there’s something special I have to do with my .desktop file that I’m forgetting? Right now it’s just called nvim.desktop and its contents are Name=Neovim (kitty)Terminal=trueExec=kitty -e nvim %FI’ve done nothing else with the desktop file just created it and done thatI know I’m not supposed to have the terminal line as that brings up a log window but I’m just grasping at straws to see any sort of progress but nadaI did try to uninstall the gnome-console but then had to delete every other terminal aside from kitty that I had installed for it to actually use kitty and then when it finally did all the characters aside from the text look weird and its in reverse colours, I wanted to see if opening nvim as an app would fix this, it opened in kitty but had the weird colour thing, this just started happening and I have no idea why it was working perfectly normal not 15 minutes agoPs this is a copy and paste of an old post, for more information on ran commands please check my profile history it’s a very recent post
Asking to be guided to docs for package manager Asking to be guided to docs for package manageru/Academic_Answer5581•10 days agoAsking to be guided to docs for package managerQUESTIONSo hello guys i am student highly into system programming. And i want to know if any one have something that can teach me how to make package manager
I modernized the classic "Elegant Arch" SDDM theme: Now with Qt 6, High-DPI support, and Blur effects. I modernized the classic "Elegant Arch" SDDM theme: Now with Qt 6, High-DPI support, and Blur effects.u/DjalelOukid•18 days agoI modernized the classic "Elegant Arch" SDDM theme: Now with Qt 6, High-DPI support, and Blur effects.SHAREOriginally released in 2016, I have completely modernized Elegant Arch Linux SDDM theme to meet today's standards while keeping the classic elegance you love.Rebuilt from the ground up with Qt 6, it is now faster and smoother. Whether you are on a standard laptop or a 4K monitor, it scales perfectly.https://github.com/sniper1720/elegant-sddm-archlinux-themeI'd love to hear what you think or if you have any suggestions.
Problem with shutting down Problem with shutting downu/Dear-Boysenberry5030•11 days agoProblem with shutting downSUPPORTHello, I'm running archlinux with hyprland withii dotfiles. When shutting down, system reaches target "system poweroff" nothing happens. After 15-20 seconds monitor starts to flash with random colors, and wouldn't shut down in all cases. On gnome it works fine,sudo poweroff -fworks fine as well.It might be something with my monitor, (xiaomi g27qi) because if I turn in off by the button on its body, system does shut down without any problems.I've tried to factory reset it, but It didn't help, in the settings, there are also nothing that seems like solution.I've tried a lot of things, from modifying kernel parameters, to use hyprshutdown which didn't help too.Thank you in advance for help!Here are my specs if that is helpfulArch Linux x86_64Linux 6.18.7-zenl-1-zenHyprland 6.53.3 (Wayland)2560x1446 in 27", 188 Hz [External]1920x1086 in 27", 75 Hz [External]12th Gen Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-12768GeForce GTX 1080 Tinvidia (proprietary) 580.126.89
Made a new security-focused & declarative arch installer, called DALI Made a new security-focused & declarative arch installer, called DALIu/qiriri•24 days agoMade a new security-focused & declarative arch installer, called DALISHAREHello fellow archers, wanted to share with you a personal project I've been working on lately, an opinionated and declarative Arch installer, simplifying and automating all installations.Define your system once in a yaml config, and then deploy the same spec every time, without manual work.This installer represents what I think is the best Arch setup possible, in terms of security, ergonomics, and quality of life improvements.It uses full disk encryption, systemd-boot, UKIs, btrfs, hardened kernel,signed & bootable writable snapshotsstraight from the boot menu, secure hibernation support and many more features.Did I mention there's a migration feature? It takes your existing install and ports it to the target system (described in the docs).Checkout thegithub repo, and feel free to open issues or PRs, feedback is welcomed.I tried to write detailed docs, but drop a comment if anything is unclear.
Arch Linux Wi-Fi works in class, but no internet in the hostel (works on Windows) Arch Linux Wi-Fi works in class, but no internet in the hostel (works on Windows)u/lucisword•7 days agoArch Linux Wi-Fi works in class, but no internet in the hostel (works on Windows)QUESTIONYo! Having a weird Arch moment. My college has two main Wi-Fi networks. On "X" (classroom), everything is great. On "Y" (hostel), my Arch install connects to the AP but has no internet access.The weird part? Windows works fine on both. If it works in one building but not the other, what could be the culprit? I'm using NetworkManager. Any help is appreciated!
When do u reboot? When do u reboot?u/prometheus-illbound•20 hr. agoWhen do u reboot?QUESTIONWith macbooks i would rarely manually reboot unless some installation process requires it or there is an update. With windows laptops i often rebooted to clean things up and just make things a bit snappier.Now using arch linux with dms and niri on a dell workstation laptop. Ive been using this one without rebooting for a few weeks now. Running paru -Syu regularly. Have not been told by any program to reboot. This makes me wonder if this is good practice or it’s still recommended to reboot the system every now and then. When do you ppl reboot? And for what reasons, other than it being required?
Best way to launch apps without controlling terminal? Best way to launch apps without controlling terminal?u/4r73m190r0s•10 days agoBest way to launch apps without controlling terminal?SUPPORTI abandoned Windows and went straight withArchwithHyprland, so be patient with my ignorance and stupidity.I'm launching apps via terminal, but it annoys me that I have controlling terminal associated with apps I launch, unless its browser or terminal that I have launch with Hyprland shortcuts.What are other ways to launch apps so I can avoid having associated terminal with them, without relying on desktop environments that I do not want?
I built a minimalist Pomodoro Timer for i3wm I built a minimalist Pomodoro Timer for i3wmu/yawuxi•6 days agoI built a minimalist Pomodoro Timer for i3wmSHAREI built a minimalist Pomodoro Timer for i3wmr/i3wm•6 days agoI built a minimalist Pomodoro Timer for i3wmI found a six-year-old repository where someone had written a small ~100-line Bash script usingdmenu(a lightweight application launcher in Linux). That inspired me to write my own Bash-based Pomodoro timer.I set the following goals for myself:Keep it minimalist.Integrate it as ani3blockini3bar.Make it easy to use and configure.Rely minimally on AI assistants or even Google while building it.Over two evenings after work, I developed the timer while learning Bash documentation on the fly and deepening my understanding of i3wm. During the process, I refreshed some Linux concepts and decided to use the/tmpdirectory, which relies ontmpfs— meaning data is stored directly in RAM rather than on disk.Once everything was tested and working as intended, I decided to share the project publicly. I addedinstallanduninstallscripts to simplify setup and removal so anyone could add a minimalist Pomodoro timer to theiri3barin just a few clicks.GitHub repo:https://github.com/yawuxi/pomodoro-i3P.S. This is my first post on Reddit.24upvotes·2comments
Consistent 5s delay network issue Consistent 5s delay network issueu/GodderDam•3 days agoConsistent 5s delay network issueSUPPORT | SOLVEDSOLUTIONIt turns out the issue was due to thedeprecation of cloudflared proxy-dns command.I foundthison the Pihole documentation:As of November 2025 the proxy-dns feature that this guide relies upon is deprecated by cloudflare. Current installations will continue to work and are supported for 12 months after their release date. However, if cloudflared is updated after the 2nd of February 2026 it will no longer function as per this guide. New installations via this method are not recommended. Uninstallation instructions are available below.And I had a cron which auto updated it weekly. Disabling and uninstalling cloudflared fixed the issue.ISSUEHey all,I’m seeing a weird network performance issue on my Arch Linux desktop that I can’t figure out. Today I noticed Firefox taking too damn long to open and load any page, but only in this particular device; all other devices on my LAN are responsive.Timing thecurlqueries bellow, it runs almost instantly on my Raspberry Pi, but take consistent ~5 seconds on my Arch box, even though the responses themselves are tiny.On Raspberry Pi$ time curl google.com <HTML><HEAD><meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"> <TITLE>301 Moved</TITLE></HEAD><BODY> <H1>301 Moved</H1> The document has moved <A HREF="http://www.google.com/">here</A>. </BODY></HTML>  real0m0.131s user0m0.011s sys0m0.034s  $ time curl cloudflare.com <html> <head><title>301 Moved Permanently</title></head> <body> <center><h1>301 Moved Permanently</h1></center> <hr><center>cloudflare</center> </body> </html>  real0m0.065s user0m0.014s sys0m0.030sOn Arch Linux desktop$ time curl google.com <HTML><HEAD><meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"> <TITLE>301 Moved</TITLE></HEAD><BODY> <H1>301 Moved</H1> The document has moved <A HREF="http://www.google.com/">here</A>. </BODY></HTML> curl google.com  0.01s user 0.00s system 0% cpu 5.075 total  $ time curl cloudflare.com <html> <head><title>301 Moved Permanently</title></head> <body> <center><h1>301 Moved Permanently</h1></center> <hr><center>cloudflare</center> </body> </html> curl cloudflare.com  0.00s user 0.00s system 0% cpu 5.038 totalDNS / network setup- My Raspberry Pi is running Pi-hole- Pi-hole is configured as the DNS provider via my router- Both the Pi and Arch desktop (and every other device on my LAN) are using my Raspberry as DNS resolverNotes- Delay looks like it happens before data transfer- Output appears immediately once it starts, but total time is ~5s on archAny ideas on what could cause this?A bit more info, happy to provide any additional context if needed:$ fastfetch OS: Arch Linux x86_64 Host: B550M AORUS ELITE Kernel: Linux 6.18.8-zen2-1-zen Uptime: 45 mins Packages: 664 (pacman), 21 (flatpak-user) Shell: zsh 5.9 Display (XB241YU): 2560x1440 in 24", 165 Hz [External] DE: COSMIC 1.0.0 WM: cosmic-comp (Wayland) Cursor: Adwaita Terminal: cosmic-term 1.0.5 Terminal Font: Fira Code (13px) CPU: AMD Ryzen 5 5600X (12) @ 4.65 GHz GPU: NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3080 Lite Hash Rate [Discrete] Memory: 3.55 GiB / 15.51 GiB (23%) Swap: 0 B / 7.76 GiB (0%) Disk (/): 12.79 GiB / 48.91 GiB (26%) - ext4 Disk (/home): 526.11 GiB / 1.74 TiB (30%) - ext4 Local IP (enp5s0): 192.168.15.10/24 Locale: en_US.UTF-8  $ cat /etc/resolv.conf # Generated by NetworkManager nameserver 192.168.15.2 nameserver fe80::xxxx:xxxx:xxxx:xxxx%enp5s0  $ resolvectl status Failed to get global data: Could not activate remote peer 'org.freedesktop.resolve1': activation request failed: unknown unitThanks in advance — this one’s been driving me a bit nuts 😅
my pc need to be turned on multiple times before sddm shows up my pc need to be turned on multiple times before sddm shows upu/qellyree•20 hr. agomy pc need to be turned on multiple times before sddm shows upSUPPORThello so whenever i try to boot my pc i can get past the boot loader normally but most times after i get the black screen with just a "_" character on the top left and won't turn on no matter how much i wait. i need to reboot it multiple times before sddm loads. i use arch + hyprland, sddm and grub and i'm not even sure what exactly is causing the problem. i would assume it's sddm since grub shoes up normally and sddm boots before the de or wm but idk it might also be arch. i haven't done anything weird and i had this problem from the start. i didn't have this problem on windows so it's not a hardware thing either. i hope someone knows what's the problem.
Issue with usermod and docker Issue with usermod and dockeru/Electronic-Guitar-61•11 days agoIssue with usermod and dockerSUPPORT | SOLVEDHi, I am trying to run a docker image on the usual var/run socket but I get permission denied errors when I do so.When I look around the standard fix is to just add your user to the docker group. But when I runsudo usermod -aG docker $USERI just get some usage instructions. As in:> sudo usermod -aG docker $USER Usage: usermod [options] LOGIN  Options:   -a, --append                  append the user to the supplemental GROUPS                                 mentioned by the -G option without removing                                 the user from other groups   -b, --badname                 allow bad names   -c, --comment COMMENT         new value of the GECOSetc.(obviously I use my actual username, not USER)Have tried typing manually to avoid odd copy-paste of the '-'. Have tried going through the gui to set permissions. Neither seemed to work.Any ideas? Can't for the life of me see what I'm doing wrong
[Help] Minecraft Premium account not recognized on Arch Linux (Official Launcher & Prism) [Help] Minecraft Premium account not recognized on Arch Linux (Official Launcher & Prism)u/NvAlekz•11 days ago[Help] Minecraft Premium account not recognized on Arch Linux (Official Launcher & Prism)SUPPORTHi everyone,I'm having a persistent issue onArch Linux. My Minecraft Premium account is not being recognized as "owning" the game, even though it's a paid account.The Issue:Whenever I try to play, I get the message:"This account does not own Minecraft. Play Demo?".Important Context:This is happening onBOTH the Official Minecraft Launcher and Prism Launcher.My account shows as "MSA" (Microsoft Account).In Prism, it often shows a status of "Offline" right after logging in.I've confirmed ownership on the Minecraft website, but the launchers refuse to see the "Ownership Ticket".What I've tried:Re-logging multiple times.Checking for system updates (pacman -Syu).Trying different launchers.Since it happens in the official launcher too, I suspect it might be a communication issue with Microsoft's auth servers or a missing system dependency in Arch that handles the secure login tokens.Has anyone dealt with this recently? Any specific packages I should check (keyrings, SSL certs, etc.)?
Segmentation Fault during pacman -Syu Segmentation Fault during pacman -Syuu/fuzunspm•14 days agoSegmentation Fault during pacman -SyuSUPPORT | SOLVEDToday I casually ransudo pacman -Syubut it fails when installing packages with segmentation fault. At this point i'm scared to reboot. Full output below:EDIT: I ended up chroot via live usb and pacman -Syu without an issue, after that i managed to reboot and logged in my arch pc. Thanks for the answers╰─$ sudo pacman -Syu :: Synchronizing package databases...  core is up to date  extra is up to date  multilib is up to date :: Starting full system upgrade... resolving dependencies... looking for conflicting packages...  Packages (34) blender-17:5.0.1-3  chromium-144.0.7559.109-1  composer-2.9.5-1  electron38-38.8.0-1  electron39-39.4.0-1  freerdp-2:3.22.0-1               fuse-common-3.18.1-1  fuse3-3.18.1-1  gettext-1.0-1  gnome-mahjongg-49.1.1-1  hyprpaper-0.8.3-1  kio-6.22.1-1  lib32-curl-8.18.0-4               lib32-libcurl-compat-8.18.0-4  lib32-libcurl-gnutls-8.18.0-4  lib32-libxmu-1.3.1-1  lib32-orc-0.4.42-1  libcurl-compat-8.18.0-3               libcurl-gnutls-8.18.0-3  libxmu-1.3.1-1  linux-6.18.7.arch1-1  linux-headers-6.18.7.arch1-1  linux-zen-6.18.7.zen1-1               linux-zen-headers-6.18.7.zen1-1  mercurial-7.2-1  orc-0.4.42-1  procps-ng-4.0.6-1  python-confuse-2.2.0-1  python-pikepdf-10.3.0-1               python-pytokens-0.4.1-1  usd-25.11-4  vhba-module-20250329-62  yt-dlp-2026.01.29-1  yt-dlp-ejs-0.4.0-1  Total Download Size:    914.26 MiB Total Installed Size:  2389.17 MiB Net Upgrade Size:        10.12 MiB  :: Proceed with installation? [Y/n] :: Retrieving packages...  chromium-144.0.7559.109-1-x86_64                                118.6 MiB  11.8 MiB/s 00:10 [######################################################] 100%  electron39-39.4.0-1-x86_64                                       80.6 MiB  8.00 MiB/s 00:10 [######################################################] 100%  linux-zen-6.18.7.zen1-1-x86_64                                  148.1 MiB  13.3 MiB/s 00:11 [######################################################] 100%  linux-6.18.7.arch1-1-x86_64                                     143.0 MiB  11.3 MiB/s 00:13 [######################################################] 100%  blender-17:5.0.1-3-x86_64                                       174.4 MiB  11.7 MiB/s 00:15 [######################################################] 100%  electron38-38.8.0-1-x86_64                                       80.1 MiB  11.6 MiB/s 00:07 [######################################################] 100%  mercurial-7.2-1-x86_64                                            6.3 MiB  3.28 MiB/s 00:02 [######################################################] 100%  usd-25.11-4-x86_64                                               25.8 MiB  4.83 MiB/s 00:05 [######################################################] 100%  kio-6.22.1-1-x86_64                                               3.6 MiB  3.72 MiB/s 00:01 [######################################################] 100%  yt-dlp-2026.01.29-1-any                                           5.1 MiB  3.37 MiB/s 00:02 [######################################################] 100%  linux-headers-6.18.7.arch1-1-x86_64                              56.9 MiB  6.36 MiB/s 00:09 [######################################################] 100%  gnome-mahjongg-49.1.1-1-x86_64                                    2.5 MiB  1508 KiB/s 00:02 [######################################################] 100%  freerdp-2:3.22.0-1-x86_64                                         2.5 MiB  1345 KiB/s 00:02 [######################################################] 100%  gettext-1.0-1-x86_64                                              3.2 MiB  1568 KiB/s 00:02 [######################################################] 100%  procps-ng-4.0.6-1-x86_64                                        991.5 KiB  2.76 MiB/s 00:00 [######################################################] 100%  python-pikepdf-10.3.0-1-x86_64                                  819.4 KiB  2.17 MiB/s 00:00 [######################################################] 100%  composer-2.9.5-1-any                                            591.6 KiB  2.11 MiB/s 00:00 [######################################################] 100%  lib32-curl-8.18.0-4-x86_64                                      405.4 KiB  1432 KiB/s 00:00 [######################################################] 100%  lib32-libcurl-compat-8.18.0-4-x86_64                            404.3 KiB  1352 KiB/s 00:00 [######################################################] 100%  libcurl-compat-8.18.0-3-x86_64                                  402.3 KiB   944 KiB/s 00:00 [######################################################] 100%  lib32-libcurl-gnutls-8.18.0-4-x86_64                            396.1 KiB   896 KiB/s 00:00 [######################################################] 100%  libcurl-gnutls-8.18.0-3-x86_64                                  393.9 KiB   873 KiB/s 00:00 [######################################################] 100%  linux-zen-headers-6.18.7.zen1-1-x86_64                           57.9 MiB  4.66 MiB/s 00:12 [######################################################] 100%  orc-0.4.42-1-x86_64                                             319.6 KiB  1184 KiB/s 00:00 [######################################################] 100%  lib32-orc-0.4.42-1-x86_64                                       275.0 KiB  4.33 MiB/s 00:00 [######################################################] 100%  vhba-module-20250329-62-x86_64                                  151.9 KiB  2.32 MiB/s 00:00 [######################################################] 100%  hyprpaper-0.8.3-1-x86_64                                        141.5 KiB  1189 KiB/s 00:00 [######################################################] 100%  fuse3-3.18.1-1-x86_64                                           135.4 KiB  2.17 MiB/s 00:00 [######################################################] 100%  libxmu-1.3.1-1-x86_64                                            76.5 KiB  1234 KiB/s 00:00 [######################################################] 100%  python-confuse-2.2.0-1-any                                       63.5 KiB   552 KiB/s 00:00 [######################################################] 100%  yt-dlp-ejs-0.4.0-1-any                                           52.0 KiB   852 KiB/s 00:00 [######################################################] 100%  lib32-libxmu-1.3.1-1-x86_64                                      46.6 KiB   763 KiB/s 00:00 [######################################################] 100%  python-pytokens-0.4.1-1-any                                      33.6 KiB   551 KiB/s 00:00 [######################################################] 100%  fuse-common-3.18.1-1-x86_64                                       2.6 KiB  22.6 KiB/s 00:00 [######################################################] 100%  Total (34/34)                                                   914.3 MiB  39.6 MiB/s 00:23 [######################################################] 100% (34/34) checking keys in keyring                                                             [######################################################] 100% (34/34) checking package integrity                                                           [######################################################] 100% (34/34) loading package files                                                                [######################################################] 100% (34/34) checking for file conflicts                                                          [######################################################] 100% (34/34) checking available disk space                                                        [######################################################] 100% warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/ch01.html warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/ch02.html warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/ch03.html warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/ch04.html warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/ch05.html warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/home.png warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/index.html warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/left-insensitive.png warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/left.png warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/orc-ARM.html warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/orc-MMX.html warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/orc-Orc.html warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/orc-OrcCompiler.html warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/orc-OrcDebug.html warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/orc-OrcExecutor.html warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/orc-OrcOpcode.html warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/orc-OrcProgram.html warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/orc-OrcRule.html warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/orc-PowerPC.html warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/orc-SSE.html warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/orc-Utility-functions.html warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/orc-building.html warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/orc-concepts.html warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/orc-misc.html warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/orc-opcodes.html warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/orc-program.html warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/orc-running.html warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/orc-tutorial.html warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/orc-x86.html warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/orc.devhelp2 warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/right-insensitive.png warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/right.png warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/style.css warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/up-insensitive.png warning: could not get file information for usr/share/gtk-doc/html/orc/up.png warning: could not get file information for usr/share/licenses/orc/COPYING warning: could not get file information for usr/lib/modules/6.18.6-arch1-1/kernel/virt/lib/irqbypass.ko.zst warning: could not get file information for usr/lib/modules/6.18.6-arch1-1/modules.builtin warning: could not get file information for usr/lib/modules/6.18.6-arch1-1/modules.builtin.modinfo warning: could not get file information for usr/lib/modules/6.18.6-arch1-1/modules.order warning: could not get file information for usr/lib/modules/6.18.6-arch1-1/pkgbase warning: could not get file information for usr/lib/modules/6.18.6-arch1-1/vmlinuz warning: could not get file information for usr/lib/modules/6.18.6-zen1-1-zen/kernel/virt/lib/irqbypass.ko.zst warning: could not get file information for usr/lib/modules/6.18.6-zen1-1-zen/modules.builtin warning: could not get file information for usr/lib/modules/6.18.6-zen1-1-zen/modules.builtin.modinfo warning: could not get file information for usr/lib/modules/6.18.6-zen1-1-zen/modules.order warning: could not get file information for usr/lib/modules/6.18.6-zen1-1-zen/pkgbase warning: could not get file information for usr/lib/modules/6.18.6-zen1-1-zen/vmlinuz :: Running pre-transaction hooks... (1/2) Removing linux initcpios... (2/2) Remove DKMS modules :: Processing package changes... [1]    23702 segmentation fault  sudo pacman -Syu
GDM scaling screen resolution GDM scaling screen resolutionu/S1e0rdk•11 days agoGDM scaling screen resolutionQUESTIONHello, I'm using another distro with GNOME. I have a small screen laptop (13 inch), and i am using 125%  screen resolution.I have installed Arch to try, and I saw that GDM in Arch using same 125% automatically in my laptop.How i can make configure GDM 125% in another distro? How exactly Arch make it?
Guide for fresh Encrypted arch install? Guide for fresh Encrypted arch install?u/demn__•11 days agoGuide for fresh Encrypted arch install?QUESTIONHelloIs there any resource or a guide where full disk (partition)encrypted arch linux install is provided step by step ?Ive been trying to get my head around it, snapper and limine would be preferable but i could consider no snapshot if thats a bottleneck when it comes to encrypted installs.
I seem to be having trouble with internet disconnecting when my computer goes to sleep I seem to be having trouble with internet disconnecting when my computer goes to sleepu/hell-si•4 days agoI seem to be having trouble with internet disconnecting when my computer goes to sleepSUPPORT | SOLVEDI'm using KDE Plasma with Network Manager. And whenever I wake my computer from sleep, it can't connect to the internet. Even when I restart Network Manager. It seems to work okay when I restart the computer, but that can't be good for it, constant rebooting. IWD is disabled, so it's not interfering with it. Here's the status I get when I run status NetworkManager (personal info redacted)● NetworkManager.service - Network Manager      Loaded: loaded (/usr/lib/systemd/syste m/NetworkManager.service; enabled; preset: disabled)      Active: active (running) since Tue 2026-02-03 10:58:50 PST; 12h ago  Invocation: 7bce74c16f4c42f98d8d7eaeb3a1ff3c        Docs: man:NetworkManager(8)    Main PID: 579 (NetworkManager)       Tasks: 4 (limit: 17635)      Memory: 20.5M (peak: 22.1M)         CPU: 1.202s      CGroup: /system.slice/NetworkManager.service              └─579 /usr/bin/NetworkManager --no-daemon  Feb 03 23:07:11 archlinux NetworkManager[579]: <info>  [1770188831.0975] device (wlan0): supplicant interface state: associating -> associated Feb 03 23:07:11 archlinux NetworkManager[579]: <info>  [1770188831.0976] device (p2p-dev-wlan0): supplicant ma nagement interface state: associating -> associated Feb 03 23:07:17 archlinux NetworkManager[579]: <warn>  [1770188837.6948] d evice (wlan0): Activation: (wifi) association took too long Feb 03 23:07:17 archlinux NetworkManager[579]: <info>  [1770188837.6949] device (wlan0): state change: config -> failed (reason 'no-secrets', managed-type: 'full') Feb 03 23:07:17 archlinux NetworkManager[579]: <info>  [1770188837.6952] manager: NetworkManager state is now DISCONNECTED Feb 03 23:07:17 archlinux NetworkManager[579]: <info>  [1770188837.7611] device (wlan0): set-hw-addr: set MAC address to  (scanning) Feb 03 23:07:17 archlinux NetworkManager[579]: <warn>  [1770188837.8110] d evice (wlan0): Activation: failed for connection ''
A question about arch A question about archu/Retro6627•4 days agoA question about archQUESTIONHi i have been using debian for a few months now but i am tired of it's old pkgs so i am thinking to switch to arch , i don't have a problem working with terminal but i have a few questions 1- what is the best way to learn arch ? ( i knew about arch wiki but don't know how to navigate it ) 2- manual arch install vs archinstall script ( is there any down sides ?) 3- what is the tips to make it stable as a daily driver ?Note: i will install it in a vm first so that i can learn without fearing to break thingsTHANK YOU FOR ALL YOUR ANSWERS, it was really helpful i will try my way with the manual arch install
Blender cuda problems Blender cuda problemsu/Shvlovel•11 days agoBlender cuda problemsSUPPORTI have a GTX 1050 mobile and downloaded cuda-12.5 from AUR, when I attempt to use Cycles rendering it needs to compile shaders which fails.this is the console output:Sun  1 Feb - 20:14  ~   u/wizard  blender 00:02.334  blend            | Read blend: "/home/wizard/Blender/Tutorial/Guru_5.0/Donut_and_a_coffe-Guru-5.0-tutorial3.blend" /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/x86_64-pc-linux-gnu/bits/c++config.h(889): error: user-defined literal operator not found     typedef __decltype(0.0bf16) __bfloat16_t;                        ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(535): error: type name is not allowed       : public __bool_constant<__is_array(_Tp)>                                           ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(535): error: identifier "__is_array" is undefined       : public __bool_constant<__is_array(_Tp)>                                ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(555): error: type name is not allowed       : public __bool_constant<__is_pointer(_Tp)>                                             ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(555): error: identifier "__is_pointer" is undefined       : public __bool_constant<__is_pointer(_Tp)>                                ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(601): error: type name is not allowed       : public __bool_constant<__is_member_object_pointer(_Tp)>                                                           ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(601): error: identifier "__is_member_object_pointer" is undefined       : public __bool_constant<__is_member_object_pointer(_Tp)>                                ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(623): error: type name is not allowed       : public __bool_constant<__is_member_function_pointer(_Tp)>                                                             ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(623): error: identifier "__is_member_function_pointer" is undefined       : public __bool_constant<__is_member_function_pointer(_Tp)>                                ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(715): error: type name is not allowed       : public __bool_constant<__is_reference(_Tp)>                                               ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(715): error: identifier "__is_reference" is undefined       : public __bool_constant<__is_reference(_Tp)>                                ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(751): error: type name is not allowed       : public __bool_constant<__is_object(_Tp)>                                            ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(751): error: identifier "__is_object" is undefined       : public __bool_constant<__is_object(_Tp)>                                ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(780): error: type name is not allowed       : public __bool_constant<__is_member_pointer(_Tp)>                                                    ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(780): error: identifier "__is_member_pointer" is undefined       : public __bool_constant<__is_member_pointer(_Tp)>                                ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(861): error: type name is not allowed       : public __bool_constant<__is_const(_Tp)>                                           ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(861): error: identifier "__is_const" is undefined       : public __bool_constant<__is_const(_Tp)>                                ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(877): error: type name is not allowed       : public __bool_constant<__is_volatile(_Tp)>                                              ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(877): error: identifier "__is_volatile" is undefined       : public __bool_constant<__is_volatile(_Tp)>                                ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(1492): error: type name is not allowed       : public integral_constant<std::size_t, __array_rank(_Tp)> { };                                                            ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(1492): error: identifier "__array_rank" is undefined       : public integral_constant<std::size_t, __array_rank(_Tp)> { };                                               ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(1844): error: incomplete type "std::__cv_selector<unsigned int, <error-constant>, <error-constant>>" is not allowed         using __type = typename __match::__type;                                 ^           detected during:             instantiation of class "std::__match_cv_qualifiers<_Qualified, _Unqualified, _IsConst, _IsVol> [with _Qualified=wchar_t, _Unqualified=unsigned int, _IsConst=<error-constant>, _IsVol=<error-constant>]" at line 1953             instantiation of class "std::__make_unsigned_selector<_Tp, false, true> [with _Tp=wchar_t]" at line 1964  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(1844): error: incomplete type "std::__cv_selector<unsigned short, <error-constant>, <error-constant>>" is not allowed         using __type = typename __match::__type;                                 ^           detected during:             instantiation of class "std::__match_cv_qualifiers<_Qualified, _Unqualified, _IsConst, _IsVol> [with _Qualified=char16_t, _Unqualified=unsigned short, _IsConst=<error-constant>, _IsVol=<error-constant>]" at line 1953             instantiation of class "std::__make_unsigned_selector<_Tp, false, true> [with _Tp=char16_t]" at line 1980  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(1844): error: incomplete type "std::__cv_selector<unsigned int, <error-constant>, <error-constant>>" is not allowed         using __type = typename __match::__type;                                 ^           detected during:             instantiation of class "std::__match_cv_qualifiers<_Qualified, _Unqualified, _IsConst, _IsVol> [with _Qualified=char32_t, _Unqualified=unsigned int, _IsConst=<error-constant>, _IsVol=<error-constant>]" at line 1953             instantiation of class "std::__make_unsigned_selector<_Tp, false, true> [with _Tp=char32_t]" at line 1987  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(1844): error: incomplete type "std::__cv_selector<<error-type>, <error-constant>, <error-constant>>" is not allowed         using __type = typename __match::__type;                                 ^           detected during:             instantiation of class "std::__match_cv_qualifiers<_Qualified, _Unqualified, _IsConst, _IsVol> [with _Qualified=wchar_t, _Unqualified=<error-type>, _IsConst=<error-constant>, _IsVol=<error-constant>]" at line 1915             instantiation of class "std::__make_unsigned_selector<_Tp, true, false> [with _Tp=wchar_t]" at line 2082             instantiation of class "std::__make_signed_selector<_Tp, false, true> [with _Tp=wchar_t]" at line 2096  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(2085): error: incomplete type "std::__make_signed_selector<<error-type>, false, <error-constant>>" is not allowed         using __type = typename __make_signed_selector<__unsigned_type>::__type;                                 ^           detected during instantiation of class "std::__make_signed_selector<_Tp, false, true> [with _Tp=wchar_t]" at line 2096  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(1844): error: incomplete type "std::__cv_selector<<error-type>, <error-constant>, <error-constant>>" is not allowed         using __type = typename __match::__type;                                 ^           detected during:             instantiation of class "std::__match_cv_qualifiers<_Qualified, _Unqualified, _IsConst, _IsVol> [with _Qualified=char16_t, _Unqualified=<error-type>, _IsConst=<error-constant>, _IsVol=<error-constant>]" at line 1915             instantiation of class "std::__make_unsigned_selector<_Tp, true, false> [with _Tp=char16_t]" at line 2082             instantiation of class "std::__make_signed_selector<_Tp, false, true> [with _Tp=char16_t]" at line 2112  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(2085): error: incomplete type "std::__make_signed_selector<<error-type>, false, <error-constant>>" is not allowed         using __type = typename __make_signed_selector<__unsigned_type>::__type;                                 ^           detected during instantiation of class "std::__make_signed_selector<_Tp, false, true> [with _Tp=char16_t]" at line 2112  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(1844): error: incomplete type "std::__cv_selector<<error-type>, <error-constant>, <error-constant>>" is not allowed         using __type = typename __match::__type;                                 ^           detected during:             instantiation of class "std::__match_cv_qualifiers<_Qualified, _Unqualified, _IsConst, _IsVol> [with _Qualified=char32_t, _Unqualified=<error-type>, _IsConst=<error-constant>, _IsVol=<error-constant>]" at line 1915             instantiation of class "std::__make_unsigned_selector<_Tp, true, false> [with _Tp=char32_t]" at line 2082             instantiation of class "std::__make_signed_selector<_Tp, false, true> [with _Tp=char32_t]" at line 2119  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(2085): error: incomplete type "std::__make_signed_selector<<error-type>, false, <error-constant>>" is not allowed         using __type = typename __make_signed_selector<__unsigned_type>::__type;                                 ^           detected during instantiation of class "std::__make_signed_selector<_Tp, false, true> [with _Tp=char32_t]" at line 2119  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(3303): error: type name is not allowed       : public __bool_constant<__is_invocable(_Fn, _ArgTypes...)>                                               ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(3303): error: type name is not allowed       : public __bool_constant<__is_invocable(_Fn, _ArgTypes...)>                                                    ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(3333): error: type name is not allowed       : public __bool_constant<__is_nothrow_invocable(_Fn, _ArgTypes...)>                                                       ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(3333): error: type name is not allowed       : public __bool_constant<__is_nothrow_invocable(_Fn, _ArgTypes...)>                                                            ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(3397): error: type name is not allowed     inline constexpr bool is_array_v = __is_array(_Tp);                                                   ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(3409): error: type name is not allowed     inline constexpr bool is_pointer_v = __is_pointer(_Tp);                                                       ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(3435): error: type name is not allowed       __is_member_object_pointer(_Tp);                                  ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(3445): error: type name is not allowed       __is_member_function_pointer(_Tp);                                    ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(3462): error: type name is not allowed     inline constexpr bool is_reference_v = __is_reference(_Tp);                                                           ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(3479): error: type name is not allowed     inline constexpr bool is_object_v = __is_object(_Tp);                                                     ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(3492): error: type name is not allowed     inline constexpr bool is_member_pointer_v = __is_member_pointer(_Tp);                                                                     ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(3500): error: type name is not allowed     inline constexpr bool is_const_v = __is_const(_Tp);                                                   ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(3522): error: type name is not allowed     inline constexpr bool is_volatile_v = __is_volatile(_Tp);                                                         ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/type_traits(3664): error: type name is not allowed     inline constexpr size_t rank_v = __array_rank(_Tp);                                                   ^  /usr/include/bits/mathcalls.h(83): error: exception specification is incompatible with that of previous function "cospi" (declared at line 2595 of /opt/cuda/bin/../targets/x86_64-linux/include/crt/math_functions.h)    extern double cospi (double __x) noexcept (true); extern double __cospi (double __x) noexcept (true);                                     ^  /usr/include/bits/mathcalls.h(85): error: exception specification is incompatible with that of previous function "sinpi" (declared at line 2550 of /opt/cuda/bin/../targets/x86_64-linux/include/crt/math_functions.h)    extern double sinpi (double __x) noexcept (true); extern double __sinpi (double __x) noexcept (true);                                     ^  /usr/include/bits/mathcalls.h(206): error: exception specification is incompatible with that of previous function "rsqrt" (declared at line 591 of /opt/cuda/bin/../targets/x86_64-linux/include/crt/math_functions.h)   extern double rsqrt (double __x) noexcept (true); extern double __rsqrt (double __x) noexcept (true);                                    ^  /usr/include/bits/mathcalls.h(83): error: exception specification is incompatible with that of previous function "cospif" (declared at line 2617 of /opt/cuda/bin/../targets/x86_64-linux/include/crt/math_functions.h)    extern float cospif (float __x) noexcept (true); extern float __cospif (float __x) noexcept (true);                                    ^  /usr/include/bits/mathcalls.h(85): error: exception specification is incompatible with that of previous function "sinpif" (declared at line 2573 of /opt/cuda/bin/../targets/x86_64-linux/include/crt/math_functions.h)    extern float sinpif (float __x) noexcept (true); extern float __sinpif (float __x) noexcept (true);                                    ^  /usr/include/bits/mathcalls.h(206): error: exception specification is incompatible with that of previous function "rsqrtf" (declared at line 615 of /opt/cuda/bin/../targets/x86_64-linux/include/crt/math_functions.h)   extern float rsqrtf (float __x) noexcept (true); extern float __rsqrtf (float __x) noexcept (true);                                   ^  /usr/include/c++/15.2.1/bits/utility.h(236): error: __type_pack_element is not a template       { using type = __type_pack_element<_Np, _Types...>; };                      ^  51 errors detected in the compilation of "/usr/share/blender/5.0/scripts/addons_core/cycles/source/kernel/device/cuda/kernel.cu". 00:04.134  cycles           | ERROR Failed to execute compilation command, see console for details. 00:04.134  cycles           | ERROR Refer to the Cycles GPU rendering documentation for possible solutions:                             | https://docs.blender.org/manual/en/latest/render/cycles/gpu_rendering.html                             |  00:04.134  cycles           | ERROR Invalid handle in cuModuleGetGlobal_v2(&mem, &bytes, cuModule, "kernel_params") (/usr/src/debug/blender/blender/intern/cycles/device/cuda/device_impl.cpp:678) 00:04.134  cycles           | ERROR Invalid value in cuMemcpyHtoD_v2(mem + __builtin_offsetof (KernelParamsCUDA, data), host, size) (/usr/src/debug/blender/blender/intern/cycles/device/cuda/device_impl.cpp:687)
Auto-Rotate in KDE stops working after disconnecting keyboard from Surface Pro 2 Auto-Rotate in KDE stops working after disconnecting keyboard from Surface Pro 2u/Saij_Saij•12 days agoAuto-Rotate in KDE stops working after disconnecting keyboard from Surface Pro 2SUPPORTHi.I have succesfully installed Arch linux on my old Surface Pro 2. Everything runs good and I'm really happy with the performance I got from this old machine.Only one thing does not work: autorotate in KDEAs soon as I boot the device it works. I can rotate the tablet and the screen rotates with it. But when I attach the keyboard (Surface Cover) the autorotate stops working.I already tried the setting "Only in tablet mode" in KDE but it doesn't do anything.My libinput gives me the following output:[saij@surface-arch ~]$ sudo libinput debug-events -event2   DEVICE_ADDED                 Power Button                      seat0 default group1  cap:k -event8   DEVICE_ADDED                 Video Bus                         seat0 default group2  cap:k -event0   DEVICE_ADDED                 Lid Switch                        seat0 default group3  cap:S -event1   DEVICE_ADDED                 Power Button                      seat0 default group4  cap:k -event3   DEVICE_ADDED                 MICROSOFT SAM Stylus              seat0 default group5  cap:T  size 235x132mm left calib -event4   DEVICE_ADDED                 MICROSOFT SAM Consumer Control    seat0 default group5  cap:k -event5   DEVICE_ADDED                 MICROSOFT SAM Keyboard            seat0 default group5  cap:k -event6   DEVICE_ADDED                 MICROSOFT SAM Mouse               seat0 default group5  cap:p left scroll-nat scroll-button -event16  DEVICE_ADDED                 MICROSOFT SAM Keyboard            seat0 default group5  cap:kp scroll-nat -event17  DEVICE_ADDED                 MICROSOFT SAM Mouse               seat0 default group5  cap:p left scroll-nat scroll-button -event7   DEVICE_ADDED                 Atmel Atmel maXTouch Digitizer    seat0 default group6  cap:t  size 228x132mm ntouches 10 calib -event15  DEVICE_ADDED                 Logitech MX Anywhere 3            seat0 default group7  cap:p left scroll-nat scroll-button -event3   DEVICE_REMOVED               MICROSOFT SAM Stylus              seat0 default group5  cap:T  size 235x132mm -event4   DEVICE_REMOVED               MICROSOFT SAM Consumer Control    seat0 default group5  cap:k -event5   DEVICE_REMOVED               MICROSOFT SAM Keyboard            seat0 default group5  cap:k -event6   DEVICE_REMOVED               MICROSOFT SAM Mouse               seat0 default group5  cap:p -event16  DEVICE_REMOVED               MICROSOFT SAM Keyboard            seat0 default group5  cap:kp -event17  DEVICE_REMOVED               MICROSOFT SAM Mouse               seat0 default group5  cap:p -event6   DEVICE_ADDED                 MICROSOFT SAM Mouse               seat0 default group8  cap:p left scroll-nat scroll-button -event5   DEVICE_ADDED                 MICROSOFT SAM Keyboard            seat0 default group8  cap:k -event4   DEVICE_ADDED                 MICROSOFT SAM Consumer Control    seat0 default group8  cap:k -event3   DEVICE_ADDED                 MICROSOFT SAM Stylus              seat0 default group8  cap:T  size 235x132mm left calib  event3   DEVICE_REMOVED               MICROSOFT SAM Stylus              seat0 default group8  cap:T  size 235x132mm -event4   DEVICE_REMOVED               MICROSOFT SAM Consumer Control    seat0 default group8  cap:k -event5   DEVICE_REMOVED               MICROSOFT SAM Keyboard            seat0 default group8  cap:k -event6   DEVICE_REMOVED               MICROSOFT SAM Mouse               seat0 default group8  cap:p  event17  DEVICE_ADDED                 MICROSOFT SAM Mouse               seat0 default group9  cap:p left scroll-nat scroll-button -event6   DEVICE_ADDED                 MICROSOFT SAM Mouse               seat0 default group9  cap:p left scroll-nat scroll-button -event16  DEVICE_ADDED                 MICROSOFT SAM Keyboard            seat0 default group9  cap:kp scroll-nat -event3   DEVICE_ADDED                 MICROSOFT SAM Stylus              seat0 default group9  cap:T  size 235x132mm left calib -event5   DEVICE_ADDED                 MICROSOFT SAM Keyboard            seat0 default group9  cap:k -event4   DEVICE_ADDED                 MICROSOFT SAM Consumer Control    seat0 default group9  cap:kThis shows the device booted with the keyboard attached. When I remove it, some DEVICE_REMOVED events are triggered directly followed by DEVICE_ADDED events (even with the same device name). When re-attaching it, it goes the other way around.I think there might be a problem also with detecting tablet mode correctly because of this but I can't say for sure.How can I fix the autorotate bug?GreetingsSaij
[Arch w/ KDE] How to fix multiple apps having the same generic Wayland symbol and grouping in the task bar under the same item? [Arch w/ KDE] How to fix multiple apps having the same generic Wayland symbol and grouping in the task bar under the same item?u/Maleficent-Waltz1854•12 days ago[Arch w/ KDE] How to fix multiple apps having the same generic Wayland symbol and grouping in the task bar under the same item?QUESTIONI have installed a bunch of apps since I have moved to Arch (some three years ago). The problem is, however, that a couple of apps all show the same generic Wayland symbol and these apps then group together in task bar, meaning I'll have completely different apps under the same task bar item. Most of these apps are officially supported on Arch. Any hints on how to fix this or at least "ungroup" them?
Помогите Помогитеu/Ok_Bus355•20 hr. agoПомогитеSUPPORTOh, my God, please condescend to me and finally help me fix these damn drivers.It all started with a kernel update. Everything was working fine before, but after that, I couldn't launch hyprpaper or Steam PRIME. I started scratching my head trying to pinpoint the problem, but I was stumped.hyprpaper &:  [1] 55400 DEBUG ]: Welcome to hyprpaper!                                                                                                                                                          built from commit  () ERR from hyprtoolkit ]: [EGL] Command eglQueryDevicesEXT errored out with EGL_BAD_ALLOC (0x12291): EGL_BAD_ALLOC error: In eglQueryDevicesEXT: Failed to allocate device list.  ERR from hyprtoolkit ]: [EGL] Command eglQueryDevicesEXT errored out with EGL_BAD_ALLOC (0x12291): EGL_BAD_ALLOC error: In eglQueryDevicesEXT: Failed to allocate device list.  DEBUG ]: Found 1 output(s) DEBUG ]: Monitor eDP-1 has no target: no wp will be createdMoreover, the video card is not in sleep mode.cat /proc/acpi/bbswitch: 0000:01:00.0 ONBut the joke with the non-recoverable drives and this hellish snake Garynych on the Kernel modules of my video game scares me.0000:01:00.0 ONlspci -k | grep -A3 -E "VGA|3D":             00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Skylake-H GT2 [HD Graphics 530] (rev 06) Subsystem: Intel Corporation Device 2015 Kernel driver in use: i915 Kernel modules: i915 -- 01:00.0 3D controller: NVIDIA Corporation GP106M [GeForce GTX 1060 Mobile] (rev a1) Subsystem: Lenovo Device 38e1 Kernel modules: nouveau, nvidia_drm, nvidia 01:00.1 Audio device: NVIDIA Corporation GP106 High Definition Audio Controller (rev a1)I tried to look in the bios, but this InsydeH2O is such terrible shit, but I'm even afraid to look there. The only thing I could dig up there was that Secure Boot Status is Disabled. I'm just very dumb and I need help here. I searched the Internet for everything that can be found on the Internet on this topic, but I only found information that installing linux if you have an nvidia graphics card is like growing a fist-sized hemorrhoid.
Any surprises with Arch on a Acer 16" Nitro V Gaming Laptop? Any surprises with Arch on a Acer 16" Nitro V Gaming Laptop?u/DigiAngelX•11 days agoAny surprises with Arch on a Acer 16" Nitro V Gaming Laptop?QUESTIONModel ANV16-72-73VJ is what I'm looking at...thanks for any experiences you can share.
SDDM gets stuck before the login but if I restart sddm it works SDDM gets stuck before the login but if I restart sddm it worksu/arttast•12 days agoSDDM gets stuck before the login but if I restart sddm it worksSUPPORT | SOLVEDUPDATE:Enable wayland on SDDM and that fixes it The issue post i found the solution on:https://www.reddit.com/r/kde/s/5SbkSAcrCbAs I said SDDM gets stuck when attempting to bring up the screen(note it dosent clear it the efi frame buffer contents remain) but if i tried to go to tty3 login then restart sddm it comes up fineI tried early loading drivers for both of my gpus but that didnt eork I also tryied force disabling NVIDIA using a custom x.org.conf for SDDM but I couldn't log in the system semi-soft locks if I login logini5-12450hx(with i gpu) 3050 6gb Lenovo LOQ 15IAX9 system fully updatedEDIT:The issue is optimus related as the iGPU only or the dGPU only ones workStatus of tty's:https://imgur.com/a/NXzi0QV
station wlan0 scan not doing anything station wlan0 scan not doing anythingu/Electronic_Aerie3934•3 days agostation wlan0 scan not doing anythingSUPPORT | SOLVEDit is my first time installing arch without a VM, and I run the cmd station wlan0 scan, and a new line shows. nothing happens. pls help! ♡
Bluetpoth headphone volume suddenly became too low Bluetpoth headphone volume suddenly became too lowu/Worth_Device_5374•12 days agoBluetpoth headphone volume suddenly became too lowQUESTIONThe headphone volume suddenlt became too low. The quality was normal but even at 100% audio was still low. After increasing it further audio became distorted. Headphone was not in input mods. The profile in pavucontrol was set to A2DP sink.Everything became normal after switching to windows and then coming back to arch.Anyone know why this happened?Edit: I restarted multiple times and still the problem persisted.
I just got an AMD GPU :) I just got an AMD GPU :)u/McNikolai•1 day agoI just got an AMD GPU :)SHAREMy mother board some weeks back sadly could no longer go through POST, and I had been needing to upgrade my specs for a while, and I now have a Radeon 9070, because for the longest time, I heard that NVIDIA sucked for Linux, but, I haven't really noticed a difference, and I can't really speak on performance since my old NVIDIA GPU was like 8+ years old. So what are the actual pros of having an AMD GPU on Arch (and Linux in general)? (This may be important, I use hyprland)One I noticed is that my drivers were just already here, and when I checked why, the amdgpu drivers are some sort of integrated with the kernel.
No puedo instalar Git No puedo instalar Gitu/Majestic_Finance9125•11 days agoNo puedo instalar GitSUPPORTQuiero instalar git y no puedo sale un monton de errores y que el package no se pudo mejorar, ya tengo internet pero aun asi no sirve, que hice mal? soy nuevo instalando Arch Linux
Would it be worth me setting up a full arch install or just stick with my arch based distro? Would it be worth me setting up a full arch install or just stick with my arch based distro?u/scy_404•3 days agoWould it be worth me setting up a full arch install or just stick with my arch based distro?QUESTIONBasically as the title says, I'm wondering if swapping out my arch-based distro for Arch itself would be a good idea?Just wondering as I like the idea of the system being entirely my set up. Not sure if I'm even able to ask this here as the rules dont like other distros
How do I tell code oss to automatically check other workspace folders for header files? How do I tell code oss to automatically check other workspace folders for header files?u/Koda_be•1 day agoHow do I tell code oss to automatically check other workspace folders for header files?SUPPORTI've been coding, with my .c files in ./sources and my .h files in ./headers, but when I try to import my own header files, code oss tells me that it can't find said file. It still compiles because i use a makefile and the make command, in which i specified that gcc must check ./headers with the -I parameter, but I'd like to be able to include my headers without having to always put the whole path in the #include. Can you help me pls? All the help I find is for VS Code only, not code oss
Arch Linux at FOSDEM 2026 Arch Linux at FOSDEM 2026u/Antiz1996•22 days agoArch Linux at FOSDEM 2026NOTEWORTHYhttps://lists.archlinux.org/archives/list/arch-dev-public@lists.archlinux.org/thread/GIETY3B2KJF2VKSYFBJX4PSKGYO2JMTE/
System taking long time to wake up from sleep, bluetooth not working after resuming and constantly reconnecting System taking long time to wake up from sleep, bluetooth not working after resuming and constantly reconnectingu/ColdFreezer•12 days agoSystem taking long time to wake up from sleep, bluetooth not working after resuming and constantly reconnectingSUPPORTI'm using an MSI x870e gaming plus wifi motherboard. I think I'm having issues with my internal usb controllers. My bluetooth is completely disabled right after wake up and it's driver doesnt load until a while after. I also get notifications of it re-enabling itself randomly. My pc also takes abnormally long to wake up from sleep and I think it's related to the usb issue.Does anyone know a fix for this or how to troubleshoot this further?Logs below:14:00 (USB 3-6) is my bluetooth and 12:00 (USB 1-3) is my front panel usb.> journalctl -b | grep "resume" kernel: xhci_hcd 0000:14:00.0: xHC error in resume, USBSTS 0x401, Reinit kernel: xhci_hcd 0000:12:00.0: xHC error in resume, USBSTS 0x401, Reinit  > sudo dmesg | grep -i usb [   57.408077] xhci_hcd 0000:14:00.0: xHC error in resume, USBSTS 0x401, Reinit [   57.408081] usb usb3: root hub lost power or was reset [   57.408082] usb usb4: root hub lost power or was reset [   57.410056] xhci_hcd 0000:12:00.0: xHC error in resume, USBSTS 0x401, Reinit [   57.410058] usb usb1: root hub lost power or was reset [   57.410059] usb usb2: root hub lost power or was reset [   57.614750] usb 3-6: WARN: invalid context state for evaluate context command. [   57.614855] usb 1-3: WARN: invalid context state for evaluate context command. [   57.681152] usb 8-2: reset SuperSpeed USB device number 2 using xhci_hcd [   57.787774] usb 3-6: reset full-speed USB device number 2 using xhci_hcd [   57.787781] usb 1-3: reset full-speed USB device number 2 using xhci_hcd [   58.018719] usb 8-2.1: reset SuperSpeed USB device number 3 using xhci_hcd [   58.054609] usb 1-7: WARN: invalid context state for evaluate context command. [   58.227731] usb 1-7: reset full-speed USB device number 3 using xhci_hcd [   58.496649] usb 1-11: WARN: invalid context state for evaluate context command. [   58.669731] usb 1-11: reset full-speed USB device number 4 using xhci_hcd [   59.113795] usb 1-12: reset high-speed USB device number 5 using xhci_hcdEdit: This is what gets logged when my bluetooth reconnects> sudo dmesg | grep -i bluetooth [   59.858880] Bluetooth: MGMT ver 1.23 [ 1314.448154] Bluetooth: hci0: ACL memdump size(589824) [ 1315.619139] Bluetooth: hci0: memdump done: pkts(2418), total(589824) [ 1315.626138] Bluetooth: hci0: hardware error 0x85 [ 1316.034717] Bluetooth: hci0: HCI reset during shutdown failed [ 1316.762298] Bluetooth: hci1: using NVM file: qca/nvm_usb_00190200.bin [ 1316.904152] Bluetooth: hci1: HCI Enhanced Setup Synchronous Connection command is advertised, but not supported. [ 1317.371451] Bluetooth: MGMT ver 1.23 [ 5201.248077] Bluetooth: hci1: ACL memdump size(589824) [ 5202.421075] Bluetooth: hci1: memdump done: pkts(2418), total(589824) [ 5202.837459] Bluetooth: hci1: Opcode 0x0402 failed: -19 [ 5202.837476] Bluetooth: hci1: hardware error 0x85 [ 5202.837488] Bluetooth: hci1: sending frame failed (-19) [ 5202.837494] Bluetooth: hci1: HCI reset during shutdown failed [ 5203.560299] Bluetooth: hci0: using NVM file: qca/nvm_usb_00190200.bin [ 5203.696119] Bluetooth: hci0: HCI Enhanced Setup Synchronous Connection command is advertised, but not supported. [ 5204.169423] Bluetooth: MGMT ver 1.23
SMR disks sucks. SMR disks sucks.u/National_Guidance_34•12 days agoSMR disks sucks.NOTEWORTHYI installed Arch on an SMR HDD - a Seagate Barracuda. At the time, I didn't actually know it used Shingled Magnetic Recording (SMR). I kept wondering why my system was so slow and laggy. it was getting really annoying. Booting took two minutes, and the UI felt sluggish -especially KDE Plasma, though Hyprland was somewhat okay. I remember using Windows on an HDD before (likely a CMR drive) and it was fine, with no real lag.After some research, I discovered that SMR disks are incredibly slow with small random writes. On an SMR drive, a tiny metadata write can trigger a massive rewrite of neighboring "shingled" tracks, causing the drive to choke. Since Linux updates access time metadata for every file read, I switched therelatimeoption tonoatimein myfstab. That helped a little. Still, the HDD would occasionally start a "cleanup" task or something similar, making Arch literally unusable - it would take 30 seconds just to launch kitty! Rebooting didn't help, I just waited until this cleanup is done, then my Arch became usable again (kinda).The biggest win was moving the entire system, except for/home, to an NVMe drive. The difference is night and day (obvious). However, since I already had one NVMe for Windows and three HDDs, installing the second NVMe forced me to unplug one of the hard drives due to motherboard limitations.
what desktop is the best? what desktop is the best?u/Physics_TQ•1 day agowhat desktop is the best?QUESTIONgood performance, very customizable and looks good is what im looking for
Нету юзера в кде плазме Нету юзера в кде плазмеu/Delicious_Detail_925•12 days agoНету юзера в кде плазмеSUPPORTВ общем я недавно ради рофла решил поставить кде плазму(а до этого я пытался райсить хиперленд). В общем я переустановил Арч через Арчинстал вроде всё шло нормально но когда ребутнул систему в фигне где ты выбираешь пользователя и вводишь пароль никакого пользователя нет хотя я вроде его создавал. Я решил переустановить Арч опять, только по внимательнее но когда я захожу в буут меню и выбираю флэшку у меня в граб меню вместо установщика появляется вход в систему и выбор юзера. Я пытался вводить руут пользователя типо arch и root но мне пишет что пользователя нет. Помогите пожалуйста разобраться в то я с этой проблемой уже сутки сижу
9 Year together! My experience with Arch 9 Year together! My experience with Archu/franzkimono•16 days ago9 Year together! My experience with ArchSHARESoooo 9 years with Arch... And I never was a member of your subreddit. I want to make it as my welcome post. Arch was my first distro and will always BE my only distro. To be honest I can't really say why I like it. Maybe because it is very minimalistic and I can choose what I want to do with it and how I want it to work. For me it's like building something from Legos which were not a kit, but just random blocks. For at least 6 years it never failed me. First 3 years really were just learning from mistakes. From my small knowledge at the time. Now, learnt from my mistakes, I can say it is very reliable if you know what you're doing really. I built a PC recently and freshly installed Arch since I wanted that install experience again. Customized it to my liking. I'm using gnome, but I made it look like a hybrid of W7/w10. Why? Because I can and it is really depending on what you need and what you think is comfortable for you. And that's the beauty of Arch.link if someone cares how my desktop looks like.https://ibb.co/x8LMXsqjEDIT Oh and the thing I admire and love and I never saw something better (imo of course) -- pacman.
showing lyrics for song u play csong-git showing lyrics for song u play csong-gitu/yossefsabry•2 days agoshowing lyrics for song u play csong-gitSHAREa lyrics viewer that syncs with song position written in cworks with MPD/ncmpcpp, spotify, and youTube music. Supports terminal + X11 + Wayland.AUR:https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/csong-gitGIT:https://github.com/yossefsabry/csongfor installyay -S csong-git
How do I choose the right keyboard layout? How do I choose the right keyboard layout?u/OutrageousRespond777•1 day agoHow do I choose the right keyboard layout?QUESTIONI installed arch today for the first time and had some trouble with the keyboard... I have a very specific keyboard and had to guess my layout at startup... I guessed wrong and spent 2h trying to fix it, but all fixes required a sudo password, but somehow it got messed up with the layout, I tried everything . I'm just going to reinstall it tomorrow.I have a Belgian(Period) keyboard on my old laptop where I installed arch to get a feel for it and eventually daily drive. How do I know what keyboard layout to choose during the initial setup?
Best environment for touchscreen Best environment for touchscreenu/munchmunchmanepic•6 days agoBest environment for touchscreenDISCUSSIONHi guys, sorry if this starts a war but I'm getting a new touchscreen laptop (specifically a Lenovo IdeaPad Flex 5 14ABR8) and I just want to know the best environment for a touchscreen/2 in 1 laptop. I'm thinking about gnome but if there are better options it would be appreciated.
How ti partition disk for windows? How ti partition disk for windows?u/nem1hail•12 days agoHow ti partition disk for windows?SUPPORTHow ti partition disk for windows?r/techsupport•12 days agoHow ti partition disk for windows?Hey everyone.I have Arch Linux installed, with 4 parts of my disk:For boot,For root directory,For home directory,And swap.Home directory part is the biggest one - 428G. Well, i want to install windows 11 in dualboot. I think i need to divide home directory by 2 and format 2nd partition in format that windows needs.How should i do it? Fdisk says that partition of disk im using now is bad idea. I can’t partition that part while installing windows from usb, it says that format of this part isn’t good for windows. Which format i need to use for windows? Thank you!1upvote·2comments
Which kernel is your favorite and why Which kernel is your favorite and whyu/nyan_cat_554•12 days agoWhich kernel is your favorite and whyDISCUSSIONPlease give a tl;dr if its too long
Failed booting Failed bootingu/Sooope_•4 days agoFailed bootingSUPPORT | SOLVEDI’ve been using arch for a year and I’ve never seen it doing so. I was in the middle of running pacman -Syu and my hyprland suddenly crashed. It sent me back to sddm so I thought maybe I should reboot, then it showserror: file ‘/boot/vmlinuz-linux” not founderror: you need to load the kernel first.Press any key to continue…It’s still the same after multiple reboots. How can I fix this?
Alienware 18/16 area 51 (2025) no sound Alienware 18/16 area 51 (2025) no soundu/Maelstorm01•12 days agoAlienware 18/16 area 51 (2025) no soundQUESTIONHas the kernel been updated to work with these? is there another fix? i can't wait to get off win11. i daily drove for a year arch but needed a new laptop (and my fault for picking something so new). i heard that it would be resolved in a future kernel but i still haven't seen word if it has been fixed or not.
I'm having audio and microphone problems on my Arch laptop. My microphone simply doesn't work, and if I force it to work, the audio from my notebook becomes terrible. I'm having audio and microphone problems on my Arch laptop. My microphone simply doesn't work, and if I force it to work, the audio from my notebook becomes terrible.u/Gabriel007Maia•2 days agoI'm having audio and microphone problems on my Arch laptop. My microphone simply doesn't work, and if I force it to work, the audio from my notebook becomes terrible.SUPPORTAs stated in the post title, my laptop's internal microphone stopped working after I switched to Linux. I only noticed this when I joined a Discord call with my friends and saw that my microphone wasn't picking up audio. I tried changing the Discord settings and managed to speak, but the audio quality was terrible, and the sound quality I heard also worsened. I even downloaded pavucontrol to see if it would solve the problem, but it didn't work. I don't know what the problem could be. Does anyone know how to fix it?
Wiped /home Wiped /homeu/Kukac285•1 mo. agoWiped /homeDISCUSSIONHi guys! I'm an arch Linux user for 2 years now. I use it ½time, use windows ½ time. Don't judge me please, I have to run environments that only exits on windows as I'm learning programming at university.So after 2 years I wanted to try hyperland, and when I tried to fix paru (after 3 hours of pain) I accidentally copy just the part of a command from git. Guess which one was it... cd ~ rm -rfI was at the point where I did not look at the command line what I copied, just continue reading the readme. When I realized what I started, the command finished the work :)I recovering some of it right now, but you know, there is no file like final_exam.c or questions.pdf, no it's f01272.c and f725103.pdf So I'm probably fucked, and now I regret going for ext4 instead of Btrfs.
How can I get 1password quick access menu to work? How can I get 1password quick access menu to work?u/Familiar_Assistant23•12 days agoHow can I get 1password quick access menu to work?QUESTIONHow can I get the quick access menu to work properly? Currently there is not option to map it to a hotkey in the settings.I have attached a picture?https://imgur.com/a/YpN43WK
Trying to get a native-image of my Swing app working Trying to get a native-image of my Swing app workingu/Striking-Flower-4115•12 days agoTrying to get a native-image of my Swing app workingQUESTIONTrying to get a native-image of my Swing app workingr/javahelp•12 days agoTrying to get a native-image of my Swing app workingHi, i'm using maven to compile a native-image on Arch Linux (dont know if that helps) but it always fails with this error:Exception in thread "main" java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError: com.formdev.flatlaf.util.SystemFileChooserat wtxt.WaveTextEditor.<clinit>(WaveTextEditor.java:24)at java.base@25.0.1/java.lang.invoke.DirectMethodHandle.ensureInitialized(DirectMethodHandle.java:334)at java.base@25.0.1/java.lang.invoke.DirectMethodHandle.internalMemberNameEnsureInit(DirectMethodHandle.java:335)I've included it as a dependency with maven, and i still didnt get any.Steps to recreate the problem:https://github.com/RishonDev/WaveTextEditorrun :git clone https://github.com/RishonDev/WaveTextEditor cd WaveTextEditor mvn package  native-image -Djava.awt.headless=false -jar target/WaveTextEditor-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar target/wavetxt target\wavetxt2upvotes·2comments
New Tool : Bird, turn any website into an isolated desktop app New Tool : Bird, turn any website into an isolated desktop appu/nszabo32•18 days agoNew Tool : Bird, turn any website into an isolated desktop appSHAREhttps://github.com/nsz32/bird
Just installed arch, looking for ideas to verify i didn't miss anything essential. Mainly for developer use case with maybe some gaming. Just installed arch, looking for ideas to verify i didn't miss anything essential. Mainly for developer use case with maybe some gaming.u/God_knows_what•12 days agoJust installed arch, looking for ideas to verify i didn't miss anything essential. Mainly for developer use case with maybe some gaming.DISCUSSIONSo I did the manual install from cli and not arch install, hence not sure if I got everything I'll need. I've installed arch with hyperland, tmux, nvim and have mozilla, wofi, set up the firewall settings. Set the drivers and got it configured properly, took a timeshift of the current setup and set up monitoring stuff for battery. I believe most of the imp stuff is covered. I'm looking for things experienced people might feel essential for arch to be smooth or basic-secure. Also got the power modes thing sorted too.
Moving toward a "Narrow" Arch install: Thoughts on the Flatpak-first approach? Moving toward a "Narrow" Arch install: Thoughts on the Flatpak-first approach?u/TrapNouz•16 days agoMoving toward a "Narrow" Arch install: Thoughts on the Flatpak-first approach?QUESTIONI’ve been experimenting with different Arch configurations for a while now and I’m considering moving to a more "Narrow" base install.Specifically, I'm thinking about keeping the host system strictly limited to official repos (Kernel, DE, Drivers) and using Flatpaks for 100% of my user-facing apps. The goal is to isolate the rolling base from the application layer to minimize the "manual intervention" tax during updates.For those who have transitioned to a "No-AUR" or "Flatpak-only" workflow:• Does this actually simplify your maintenance when returning to the system after a long gap?• Do you feel the trade-off in disk space and theming complexity is worth the added system predictability?
why are kwrite and kate merged into one package? why are kwrite and kate merged into one package?[deleted]•1 mo. agowhy are kwrite and kate merged into one package?QUESTIONkate is great, but it’s too powerful for me and i don’t need 99% of what it offers which is why i resort to kwrite, i don’t understand why they aren’t separate packages though, i don’t need both installed on my system.
Dolphin or thunar Dolphin or thunaru/Fubiii11•27 days agoDolphin or thunarDISCUSSIONI have to bring this debate up again. Which one do you use and why. Or do you use something completely different?
B580 Today. B580 Today.u/MrChuw•14 days agoB580 Today.QUESTIONI’m a Linux user (Arch) with a 1070 Ti, and recently it started having issues on top of NVIDIA dropping support. I live in Brazil, and as some people may know, electronics here are very expensive. The B580 fits exactly within my budget (the RX 7600 as well, and if I can get a "bit" more money I might be able to grab a 9060 XT on sale).I’d like to try a B580. I don’t really care much about graphics, and I don’t play many games, mostly PoE, Warframe, Factorio, and Minecraft once in a while, don't really care about raytracing or fake frame. I’m also a programmer, and I might use the GPU for light LLM-related tasks, mainly one-line code completion inside my IDE. I’d like to know what the current state of drivers and compatibility is like, since if I buy it I’ll probably keep it for around 6~7 years (again).Right now I have a 5600X and my motherboard supports resizable BAR (msi b450m pro vdh max). I have 32 GB of crappy non matching RAM, a pretty crappy M.2, a 1440p main monitor, and a vertical ultrawide as a secondary display.I’d also like to know the current state of the drivers, not how things were 2, 3, or 6 months ago, since most reviews are either focused on Windows or already outdated.
Firefox crashes whenever choose file dialogue is triggered Firefox crashes whenever choose file dialogue is triggeredu/EnvironmentalScar709•12 days agoFirefox crashes whenever choose file dialogue is triggeredSUPPORTFirefox crashes whenever choose file dialogue is triggeredr/firefox•12 days agoFirefox crashes whenever choose file dialogue is triggeredI use arch linux with KDE plasma, and whenever I use firefox and use Ctrl+S or Ctrl+O (or any situations requiring to choose a file), it crashes with the following output:[user@arch ~]$ firefox [Parent 271468, Main Thread] WARNING: Could not load a pixbuf from icon theme. This may indicate that pixbuf loaders or the mime database could not be found.: 'glib warning', file /usr/src/debug/firefox/firefox-147.0.2/toolkit/xre/nsSigHandlers.cpp:201  (firefox:271468): Gtk-WARNING **: 20:25:16.083: Could not load a pixbuf from icon theme. This may indicate that pixbuf loaders or the mime database could not be found. ** Gtk:ERROR:../gtk/gtk/gtkiconhelper.c:495:ensure_surface_for_gicon: assertion failed (error == NULL): Failed to load /usr/share/icons/Adwaita/scalable/status/image-missing.svg: Loader process exited early with status '1'Command: "bwrap" "--unshare-all" "--die-with-parent" "--chdir" "/" "--ro-bind" "/usr" "/usr" "--dev" "/dev" "--ro-bind-try" "/etc/ld.so.cache" "/etc/ld.so.cache" "--ro-bind-try" "/nix/store" "/nix/store" "--tmpfs" "/tmp-home" "--tmpfs" "/tmp-ru n" "--clearenv" "--setenv" "HOME" "/tmp-home" "--setenv" "XDG_RUNTIME_DIR" "/tmp-run" "--setenv" "XDG_RUNTIME_DIR" "/run/user/1000" "--symlink" "/usr/lib" "/lib" "--symlink" "/usr/lib" "/lib64" "--ro-bind-try" "/etc/fonts/conf.d" "/etc/ fonts/conf.d" "--ro-bind-try" "/etc/fonts/fonts.conf" "/etc/fonts/fonts.conf" "--ro-bind-try" "/home/user/.cache/fontconfig" "/home/user/.cache/fontconfig" "--ro-bind-try" "/var/cache/fontconfig" "/var/cache/fontconfig" "--bind-try" "/h ome/user/.cache/glycin/usr/lib/glycin-loaders/2+/glycin-svg" "/home/user/.cache/glycin/usr/lib/glycin-loaders/2+/glycin-svg" "--setenv" "XDG_CACHE_HOME" "/home/user/.cache/glycin/usr/lib/glycin-loaders/2+/glycin-svg" "--seccomp" "172" " /usr/lib/glycin-loaders/2+/glycin-svg" "--dbus-fd" "169" (gdk-pixbuf-error-quark, 0) Bail out! Gtk:ERROR:../gtk/gtk/gtkiconhelper.c:495:ensure_surface_for_gicon: assertion failed (error == NULL): Failed to load /usr/share/icons/Adwaita/scalable/status/image-missing.svg: Loader process exited early with status '1'Command :  "bwrap" "--unshare-all" "--die-with-parent" "--chdir" "/" "--ro-bind" "/usr" "/usr" "--dev" "/dev" "--ro-bind-try" "/etc/ld.so.cache" "/etc/ld.so.cache" "--ro-bind-try" "/nix/store" "/nix/store" "--tmpfs" "/tmp-home" "--tmpfs" "/tmp- run" "--clearenv" "--setenv" "HOME" "/tmp-home" "--setenv" "XDG_RUNTIME_DIR" "/tmp-run" "--setenv" "XDG_RUNTIME_DIR" "/run/user/1000" "--symlink" "/usr/lib" "/lib" "--symlink" "/usr/lib" "/lib64" "--ro-bind-try" "/etc/fonts/conf.d" "/et c/fonts/conf.d" "--ro-bind-try" "/etc/fonts/fonts.conf" "/etc/fonts/fonts.conf" "--ro-bind-try" "/home/user/.cache/fontconfig" "/home/user/.cache/fontconfig" "--ro-bind-try" "/var/cache/fontconfig" "/var/cache/fontconfig" "--bind-try" " /home/user/.cache/glycin/usr/lib/glycin-loaders/2+/glycin-svg" "/home/user/.cache/glycin/usr/lib/glycin-loaders/2+/glycin-svg" "--setenv" "XDG_CACHE_HOME" "/home/user/.cache/glycin/usr/lib/glycin-loaders/2+/glycin-svg" "--seccomp" "172" "/usr/lib/glycin-loaders/2+/glycin-svg" "--dbus-fd" "169" (gdk-pixbuf-error-quark, 0) Redirecting call to abort() to mozalloc_abort  ExceptionHandler::GenerateDump attempting to generate:/home/user/.mozilla/firefox/1zwh5jbf.default-release/minidumps/53cbda52-dbae-31b5-37b8-92648c0b1c1c.dmp ExceptionHandler::GenerateDump cloned child 272769 ExceptionHandler::WaitForContinueSignal waiting for continue signal... ExceptionHandler::SendContinueSignalToChild sent continue signal to child ExceptionHandler::GenerateDump minidump generation succeeded Exiting due to channel error. Exiting due to channel error. Exiting due to channel error. Exiting due to channel error. Exiting due to channel error. [user@arch ~]$   (process:272773): Gtk-CRITICAL **: 20:25:24.170: gtk_window_set_default_icon: assertion 'GDK_IS_PIXBUF (icon)' failed  (crashreporter:272773): Gtk-WARNING **: 20:25:24.244: Could not load a pixbuf from icon theme. This may indicate that pixbuf loaders or the mime database could not be found.  (crashreporter:272773): GLib-GObject-CRITICAL **: 20:25:28.363: g_object_unref: assertion 'G_IS_OBJECT (object)' failed1upvote
Attention Sioyek Users: A Working AUR package! Attention Sioyek Users: A Working AUR package!u/Content_Incident_699•12 days agoAttention Sioyek Users: A Working AUR package!SHARETL;DR: I made a new sioyek AUR packagesioyek-devthat "just works". FInd ithere.I've been using sioyek as my PDF reader for a while now (2y+). The AUR packages (sioyek,sioyek-git) have issues - systemlibmupdfversion mismatches cause crashes, and you have to pass some flags OOTB for it to work on Wayland.I made an AUR packagesioyek-devthat:- Works from development branch- Bundles the CORRECT mupdf version (no crashes!)- Wraps sioyek so it works on Wayland sessions (native Wayland is broken upstream)Find it here:https://github.com/barrettruth/sioyek-devThis is my first AUR package - feel free to use, break, and report issues.NOTE: I acknowledge that pulling in the entirety of another library and forcing you to compile it a) takes some time and b) is an anti-pattern in arch. Unfortunately,this is the only way to do it, per the application author.
Arch GNOME Online Accounts won’t complete Nextcloud login, WebDAV works but UI does nothing Arch GNOME Online Accounts won’t complete Nextcloud login, WebDAV works but UI does nothingu/_Enf•12 days agoArch GNOME Online Accounts won’t complete Nextcloud login, WebDAV works but UI does nothingQUESTIONArch GNOME Online Accounts won’t complete Nextcloud login, WebDAV works but UI does nothingr/gnome•12 days agoArch GNOME Online Accounts won’t complete Nextcloud login, WebDAV works but UI does nothingI’m running Arch Linux with GNOME and I’m trying to reconnect my Nextcloud account through GNOME Online Accounts. I used to have it working fine, but after reinstalling my Nextcloud instance I removed the old account and now I can’t get it to connect again.When I go to Settings → Online Accounts and complete the login in my browser, GNOME doesn’t do anything afterwards. Instead, I get a “Not supported” message. There are no errors shown in thegnome‑control‑centerwindow, no useful output in the terminal, and no indication of what went wrong. The window doesn’t hang or show any steps after the browser login completes.I’ve already reinstalled all the related packages (gvfs‑goa,gvfs‑dnssd, etc.) and confirmed they’re up to date.If I mount the WebDAV manually usinggio mount davs://…with my Nextcloud credentials, Nautilus immediately shows the Nextcloud share, so the server and credentials are definitely fine, so it’s just the GNOME Online Accounts integration that never completes.Has anyone seen this behavior on Arch? Is there a way to force Online Accounts to accept the credentials or debug what GOA is doing behind the scenes? I’d really like to have the proper integration for calendar/contacts/files/Iotas.2upvotes
anyone else be chatGPTing their arch? anyone else be chatGPTing their arch?u/Zersdan•12 days agoanyone else be chatGPTing their arch?QUESTIONConsidering the DIY nature of this community as well as the "It used to be so much harder" sentiment, I can understand why this would be looked down upon... but I cut down on a lot of time lookin' through the Arch wiki by just chatGPTing the specific problem I have. I feel like I still learn, because I still pick up some commands and whatnot; but ik it ain't as candid as searching through the whole arch wiki myself I guess.IDK, how do y'all feel about using AI to help troubleshoot?
Minecraft Sound Issue on Arch Linux Minecraft Sound Issue on Arch Linuxu/zPuertah_•12 days agoMinecraft Sound Issue on Arch LinuxSUPPORT | SOLVEDSo i installed arch literally a day ago and i used archinstall (its my first time bruh) and i used it with pipewire, no issues, today i installed prism launcher and transferred the .local folder form my old installation (it was arch but i did not install it) and when i played the sound was glitched (only the game's sound), i did not touch any pipewire or audio lib in between the installation of arch and the installation of prismlauncherVideo proof on streamable
webauthn in arch linux. webauthn in arch linux.u/Icy-Bookkeeper2146•13 days agowebauthn in arch linux.SUPPORTIn Windows, Windows Hello provides passwordless authentication via WebAuthn and FIDO2 with the help of the TPM. I’m not exactly sure, but I read somewhere that Windows Hello stores primary keys in the TPM and stores other encrypted keys on the hard disk.I’m looking for something similar on Arch Linux. I don’t want external hardware like a YubiKey I want my PC itself to act as the authenticator, just like Windows Hello does.
What is a good Arch AV? What is a good Arch AV?u/Ralkey_official•22 days agoWhat is a good Arch AV?QUESTIONMy company requires I have a AV on my laptop for security.However I have switched to Arch a few months back (they just now called me out on it).I did a little bit of research but I cannot find any AV that supports Arch.Does anyone know a (good) AV that supports Arch?
KDE stable KDE stableu/anatomiska_kretsar•12 days agoKDE stableQUESTIONHow can I download a stable release cycle for KDE? Similar to one Fedora or maybe Kubuntu has. I’m tired of all the frequent bugs.
only me thinking arch is user friendly??? only me thinking arch is user friendly???u/BiscoitoToDoBR•13 days agoonly me thinking arch is user friendly???QUESTIONpeople say arch is hard to use, bad to install anything, but its actually so easy to use it (atleast in some desktops), i was using macos in a 2016 mac and i put in it arch GNOME, i had to use the terminal to install some things, but nothing that a duckduckgo search cant solve
What file manager are you using? What file manager are you using?u/No-Grapefruit-173•25 days agoWhat file manager are you using?QUESTIONI installed Arch with Hyprland about 2 month ago and i absolutely love it!Currently im using nautilus and in my opinion it's missing a few features like tags especially when you consider i use a macbook for university...So my question is what file manager du you use and what can you recommand?Elias
How invaluable is your usb ISO? How invaluable is your usb ISO?u/Salt-Reputation780•13 days agoHow invaluable is your usb ISO?QUESTIONAs far as my linux setup is concerned, I'd say without a doubt my usb iso is king, it saved me countless times and here is one of those that I happen to remember document.So I thought I had my boot setup nailed. I migrated off systemd‑boot, cleaned up my EFI partition, and installed GRUB with a Cyberpunk theme. Everything looked perfect: ArchGRUB was first in my boot order, configs were clean.Then… all of a sudden, after about a month mind you my firmware decided to yeet my shiny new entry. Instead of “ArchGRUB,” all I saw was a generic “USB HDD” option. Clicking it didn’t boot Arch — it just dumped me back into the BIOS interface. My custom GRUB entry had vanished into the void.Crazy because not so long ago I'd have cried tears of blood if I found myself in the same situation, however admittedly I lost it for a bit. I felt smited because I'm kinda proud of my setup, and its been a minute since I broke anything. I couldn’t even get into my system to fix it. But here’s what saved me:• Booted into the Arch ISO live environment.• Mounted my USB’s EFI partition (/dev/sda1).• Used efibootmgr to recreate the entry:efibootmgr -c -d /dev/sda -p 1 -L "ArchGRUB" -l '\EFI\ArchGRUB\grubx64.efi'• Set it first in boot order:efibootmgr -o 0003,0001,0000• Copied GRUB into the fallback path so even if NVRAM wipes again, the generic USB entry will still boot:cp /mnt/EFI/ArchGRUB/grubx64.efi /mnt/EFI/BOOT/BOOTX64.EFIRebooted… and boom. CyberGRUB was back, BIOS defeated.---Lessons learned:• UEFI firmware can randomly drop custom boot entries. (Its actually a thing that happens apparently)• Always keep a fallback loader at /EFI/BOOT/BOOTX64.EFI.• The Arch ISO live environment is your best friend when things go sideways. (I cannot say this enough I went from having to do a full reinstall out of desperation to rescuing my system TWICE from a kernel panic using the usb live iso)•Document your steps — future‑you will thank past‑you.
Is it possibile to encrypt my root partition after installing? Is it possibile to encrypt my root partition after installing?u/Adriaaaaaaanoooo•13 days agoIs it possibile to encrypt my root partition after installing?SUPPORTHello, im new to Linux in general, I've decided to go with Arch Linux with KDE Plasma as i heard this is an popular combo.So, basically i installed Arch without disk encryption, and now i would like to encrypt my root partition with my TPM 2.0 module, so i get the auto disk unlock on boot.(Or is it better to somehow encrypt the whole disk with boot partition???)All the info i find online is confusing, there has to be an easy way to do it without braking my system, right?Thank you.
Vesktop Vesktopu/Historical-Link-3746•2 days agoVesktopQUESTIONHi everyone, I’m using Arch Linux with KDE Plasma on Wayland. Vesktop (Discord client) used to show my currently playing games, but after recent system updates it no longer detects any games. I tried several solutions, but none of them worked. Is there any solution to this problem?
Running Fallout: New Vegas on Arch Running Fallout: New Vegas on Archu/Smooth-Ad801•12 days agoRunning Fallout: New Vegas on ArchNOTEWORTHYDownload the FNV 4GB patcher for Linux (default is limited to 2GB RAM, which makes it crash often):https://www.nexusmods.com/newvegas/mods/62552?tab=files&file_id=1000079136Extract with:7z e 'filename'3. Move the extracted file 'FalloutNVPatcher' to:~/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/'Fallout New Vegas'4. Execute the patcher in the above directory:chmod +x FalloutNVPatcher./FalloutNVPatcher5. After successful install message, download the gamescope package, go to the game in Steam, advanced options, then add the following:gamescope -H 1440 -W 2560 -f --force-grab-cursor -- %command%(The above forces a 1440p resolution, and fixes the issue of the game freezing when losing focus, and the cursor dissapearing when the game runs. Adjust the H and W flags accordingly to your monitor)6. Run the game in Windowed ModeThis guide isn't a modding guide, but the bare minimum to get the game running to a 'decently playable state', and therefore excludes the optional tick fixes and whatnot.
Switching to wayland, need recommendations. Switching to wayland, need recommendations.u/IcyAccountant4332•13 days agoSwitching to wayland, need recommendations.QUESTIONSwitching to wayland, need recommendations.r/LinuxUsersIndia•13 days agoSwitching to wayland, need recommendations.I am currently using i3 on my arch system. I wanna switch to wayland, as I don't see future in xorg. I have tried hyprland before but I don't wanna use it, I want something as stable as i3. I was thinking about switching to sway but I am not sure. Please help me also what is it that I need to take care of during the migeration.12upvotes·18comments
What is this error in archinstall What is this error in archinstallu/Persuasivwithoute•13 days agoWhat is this error in archinstallSUPPORTI'm trying to dual boot arch Linux until I got this error. What is this?https://ibb.co/r2k2Y59JI tried scrolling by shift pageup but won't work Edit: it's a grub error probably cause it downloads and install the kernel properly.
Kernal panic after a nwew fresh install of arch Kernal panic after a nwew fresh install of archu/AnisZoomer•13 days agoKernal panic after a nwew fresh install of archSUPPORT | SOLVEDImage:https://drive.google.com/file/d/19lQDTpO5NdEHtsg3J-ex8NPMRSFQXmy1/view?usp=drivesdkSo I followedthis guidestep by step to achieve the installation but it gave me theUnable to mount root fs on unknown-block (0,0)And I am new to arch and only have the basics so maybe help me?
Switched from EOS to Vanilla Arch, tips? Switched from EOS to Vanilla Arch, tips?u/SwitchX01•17 days agoSwitched from EOS to Vanilla Arch, tips?QUESTIONI've decided to swap from using Endeavor to installing pure arch, I know they put a lot into making it much easier to install arch and use stuff, but really just wanted to do my own arch installAfter 2h and going through documentation, I got it finally. Though setting up audio, some weird KDE things missing (I'm trying to keep things minimal) and not having permissions to makepkg on my user (me being stupid and downloading yay from git as root) I have some things settledBut my question is what are some things users of arch recommend to do? Some changes, setups, or some general tips for maintaining, QOL, and stuff?
how can I set up openGL for development? how can I set up openGL for development?u/not_me_frfr•13 days agohow can I set up openGL for development?QUESTIONive been trying for 4 hours straight to get opengl to work and it just wouldnt workthe only help I found was old posts with the key info deleted and 2007 tutorials that I am fairy confident dont applylearnopengl.comdoesnt even mention installation.I think I am going crazy over how little resources there.i am using clion as my ide but I would 100% change if it matters.
Any guide recommendations for making Plasma KDE look as much as possible like windows 10? Any guide recommendations for making Plasma KDE look as much as possible like windows 10?u/AsAsin18•13 days agoAny guide recommendations for making Plasma KDE look as much as possible like windows 10?SUPPORTMost of the guides i find are either confusing or just don't work (probably outdated).
Terminal Fireworks Terminal Fireworksu/Vegetable-Money-2278•22 days agoTerminal FireworksSHAREI made this simple terminal program inspired by other scripts like pipes -https://github.com/chloem3ow/terminal-fireworks, check it out if you like terminal screensavers!EDIT: A user asked me to put this on the AUR -https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/terminal-fireworks
Screen time management FOSS tool Screen time management FOSS toolu/arjxv•5 days agoScreen time management FOSS toolSHAREI am a user of arch linux for almost a year, i thought to make a screentime app for arch linux so i created a python project. Please review it and PR if there is any bugs or improvementsGithub Repo Link -github.com/Uniquearjav/zen-screentime
Laptop Speakers disappearing when connecting monitor through HDMI Laptop Speakers disappearing when connecting monitor through HDMIu/weblerzon•13 days agoLaptop Speakers disappearing when connecting monitor through HDMISUPPORT | SOLVEDI've read the WirePlumber configuration from the Wiki so I could get rid of some garbage from the outputs, but I'm facing another issue now.When the HDMI is not plugged, my laptop speakers sink is shown when I list bypactl list sinks, but when I plug it in, it disappear and it is replaced by a headphone sink.Have anyone faced and solved this issue?The outputs btw:Unplugged HDMI:Sink #2632`State: SUSPENDED`  `Name: alsa_output.pci-0000_00_1f.3-platform-skl_hda_dsp_generic.HiFi__Speaker__sink`Description: Laptop SpeakersPlugged HDMI:Sink #2618`State: SUSPENDED`  `Name: alsa_output.pci-0000_00_1f.3-platform-skl_hda_dsp_generic.HiFi__Headphones__sink`  `Description: Meteor Lake-P HD Audio Controller Headphones`SOLUTION:Had to change manually my card profile.Type:pactl list cards shortYou'll see something like this:2547alsa_card.pci-0000_00_1f.3-platform-skl_hda_dsp_genericalsaNow, I've just switched my profile by typing:pactl set-card-profile alsa_card.pci-0000_00_1f.3-platform-skl_hda_dsp_generic "HiFi (HDMI1, HDMI2, HDMI3, Mic1, Mic2, Speaker)"Thanks tou/Spirited_Run_3878
Is it discouraged to use ext4 file system for Arch? Is it discouraged to use ext4 file system for Arch?u/Jumpy_Top9377•1 day agoIs it discouraged to use ext4 file system for Arch?QUESTIONSince it doesn't have snapshots, couldn't a faulty/buggy update break the system without you being able to restore it?
d-bus error could not activate remote peer d-bus error could not activate remote peeru/PineappleGirl_5•1 day agod-bus error could not activate remote peerSUPPORTtrying to use bluetui for bluetooth but every time I try to open it I getError: internal error: D-Bus error org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.NameHasNoOwner: Could not activate remote peer 'org.bluez': activation request failed: unknown unitI've looked around but haven't been able to find anyone with this type of error? I'm pretty new to arch so please let me know if any other info is needed/how to get it
I couldn`t find a pgAdmin4 Desktop package in AUR that actually builds reliably, so I made one I couldn`t find a pgAdmin4 Desktop package in AUR that actually builds reliably, so I made oneu/Suspicious-Charity-5•1 day agoI couldn`t find a pgAdmin4 Desktop package in AUR that actually builds reliably, so I made oneSHAREFor a long time there was no pgAdmin4 Desktop package in AUR that consistentlybuilds and runs. Existing packages were often outdated, unmaintained, or failedto build with current Arch toolchains.I published a new AUR package that builds pgAdmin4 Desktop from upstream sourceand uses system components instead of bundled ones:aur:https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/pgadmin4-desktop-nativegithub:https://github.com/IlyaP358/pgadmin4-desktop-nativeKey points:- system Electron (electron34)- system Python at runtime (venv used only at build time)- isolated Python site-packages installed under /opt/pgadmin4-native- no runtime downloads or auto-updaters- builds in a clean chroot (network required for yarn/node modules at build time)Feedback and testing are welcome. =]
[RFC/Security Research] An Emergency Data Protection Dracut Module for Full Disk Encryption (LUKS & TPM2) [RFC/Security Research] An Emergency Data Protection Dracut Module for Full Disk Encryption (LUKS & TPM2)u/ephemeral_key•1 mo. ago[RFC/Security Research] An Emergency Data Protection Dracut Module for Full Disk Encryption (LUKS & TPM2)DISCUSSIONHello Arch Linux Reddit Community,I am looking for technical feedback and a security audit on an open-source project I have been developing.The project, dracut-cryptsetup-duress, is an initramfs module designed to address a specific gap in Full Disk Encryption (FDE): the vulnerability of data-at-rest during physical coercion events.Project Objective: Standard Linux Unified Key Setup (LUKS) on Linux does not natively support "Duress Passwords". This project implements a mechanism where entering a specific signal (a pre-defined password) during the early boot stage triggers an immediate emergency data protection protocol instead of decrypting the drive.Technical Implementation: The module integrates with dracut, cryptsetup, systemd, keyctl and tpm2-tools. Depending on the configuration, the defense protocol executes one of two actions upon detecting the duress signal:LUKS Keyslot Sanitization (Passphrase Mode): Instantly wipe all keyslots from all LUKS containers connected to the system via `cryptsetup erase` command. Due to SSD wear leveling, immediate physical erasure of the underlying flash cells cannot be guaranteed.TPM NVRAM Sanitization (TPM2 Mode): Sends a `tpm2_evictcontrol` command to the TPM NVRAM, physically removing a user-defined storage key (SK) required for decryption. To the best of my knowledge, SK is immediately and physically wiped from TPM NVRAM, which solves the limitation of the former method.Work Flow: The module is executed by a systemd service unit defined prior to cryptsetup-pre.target. So, it runs before systemd-cryptsetup service units. It will generate an emergency password prompt which replicates the user interface used by standard systemd-cryptsetup service units. After user types in password, it pushes the password into the kernel keyring. Then it checks if the password matches any predefined signal. If yes, it executes emergency data protection protocol. Otherwise, it exits. Then systemd-cryptsetup service units check the password pushed to the kernel keyring. If the password is correct, it unlocks disks automatically without asking user for password again (So user does not need to type password twice in a normal boot).Why I am posting this: This is a security-critical tool. I am looking for peer review regarding security weakness, including but not limited to:Race Conditions: Potential weaknesses in the systemd service unit execution order and messy early boot environment.TPM2 Architecture: The program will ask user to add a disposable user-defined storage key to the TPM used for emergency data protection protocol. I would appreciate feedback from anyone familiar with the TCG spec regarding potential NVRAM wear-leveling issues (if any) or side-channel leakage.Packaging: I have set up a CI/CD pipeline to generate RPM, and Arch packages. I welcome review on the spec / PKGBUILD correctness.Known Limitations: I have documented several hardware limitations in the README, especially concerning fTPM (Firmware TPM) vulnerabilities regarding SPI Flash cloning attacks. I am currently researching mitigation strategies using dTPM. To the best of my knowledge, its NVRAM is inside its tamper-resistant package, so it cannot be cloned trivially, but additional insight here would be valuable. Other limitations and assumptions are included in the project README.GitHub Repository:https://github.com/melody0123/dracut-cryptsetup-duress
Archinstall script stuck on "Time synchronization not completing" Archinstall script stuck on "Time synchronization not completing"u/80085_enjoyer_80085•1 day agoArchinstall script stuck on "Time synchronization not completing"SUPPORTI am new to arch linux, i decided to install it due to it's low system requirements. I was using the archinstall script because it's the easiest way that i know of to install arch. It worked fine in a virtual machine, no problems using archinstall there, but when i tried it on my real pc the instalation got stuck on "Time synchronization not completing". I waited for almost 30 minutes before i aborted and rebooted onto windows, does anyone know a fix for this problem?
What can I do with Arch for the first time? What can I do with Arch for the first time?u/JuanPolloYT•24 days agoWhat can I do with Arch for the first time?QUESTIONi've just got graduated from high school and (probably) i'll be in the university this year, so I needed my pc to revive with Linux and I decided to install arch, i spent two days and my pc is stable and with cool personalization  with arch but in now i don't know what to do until I start the university, i've just downloaded a few games and ani-cli, so can you tell what I can do to spend my time? (also, i'm new in linux so maybe some things can be hard for me lol)
Mulvad DNS issues Mulvad DNS issuesu/ChCat•13 days agoMulvad DNS issuesSUPPORTHey all,Having issues with two boxes, one Gnome and one labwc setup.  When both boot and Mulvad starts DNS fails (both aur packages mulvad-vpn and mulvad-vpn-bin).  On the Gnome desktop it seems to be worse where I need to toggle the hardware connection on and off for Ethernet to get the connection to start resolving again that doesn't really make sense to me.  Any help would be appreciated.Thanks, ChCat
Build AIRCTL: A modern WiFi manager for Linux (GTK4 + Python) Build AIRCTL: A modern WiFi manager for Linux (GTK4 + Python)u/Aroy666•13 days agoBuild AIRCTL: A modern WiFi manager for Linux (GTK4 + Python)SHARELink:github.com/pshycodr/airctlI built this because I wanted a clean WiFi manager for my Arch setup. Most tools felt clunky or terminal-only.What it does:• Scans available networks with auto-refresh• Connects to secured and open networks• Shows detailed network info (IP address, gateway, DNS servers, signal strength, frequency, security type)• Lets you forget and disconnect from networks• Toggles WiFi on/offLink:github.com/pshycodr/airctl
systemd-boot on Windows surface 5 laptop failing a waiting for device systemd-boot on Windows surface 5 laptop failing a waiting for deviceu/helios1014•13 days agosystemd-boot on Windows surface 5 laptop failing a waiting for deviceSUPPORT | SOLVEDI am trying to use systemd-boot to do an installation on my surface laptop and it keeps timing out on the waiting for device step of the boot. Any idea what I might have done wrong?some system info belowdrive schemanvme0n1p1 windows recoverynvme0n1p2 EFI partion  /mnt/bootnvme0n1p3 windows reservenvme0n1p4 windows cnvme0n1p5 luks_lvm (group name arch)|--arch-root  /mnt|--arch-home  /mnt/homeloader/entries/arch.conftitle   Arch Linuxlinux   /vmlinuz-linuxinitrd /intel-ucode.imginitrd  /initramfs-linux.imgoptions rd.luks.namexxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx=root root=/dev/arch/root/boot/default  arch.conftimeout  30console-mode keepeditor   no/etc/mkinitcpio.conf HOOKSHOOKS=(basesystemdautodetect microcode modconf kms keyboardsd-vconsoleblocksd-encryptlvm2 filesystems fsck)HOOKS=(base systemd autodetect microcode modconf kms keyboard sd-vconsole block sd-encrypt lvm2 filesystems fsck)Edit: the solution to this particular problem proved to be changing the UUID from the Root physical volume to the partition of the lvm.
Changing default terminal for Arch-Update?!? Changing default terminal for Arch-Update?!?u/sneen77•1 day agoChanging default terminal for Arch-Update?!?QUESTIONHi, i'm a Linux beginner. My question:is it possible to open Arch-Update in Alacritty instead of Terminal?
How to change width/shapes of buttons/boxes in eww? How to change width/shapes of buttons/boxes in eww?u/Dark_Eclipse847•2 days agoHow to change width/shapes of buttons/boxes in eww?QUESTIONIs there a way to change width height of a button in eww? I m trying to create taskbar using this toolkit, but seems there is no way to change height and width of an element. In docs there is like two methods that support :width property.min-width in eww.scss is working but not as expected(for example min-width: 1px is not 1px wide) value changes are not consistentAm i doing something wrong? Can someone, please, explain to me how do i change width of a button to something like 10px?
Is wayland and nvidia drivers even possible? Is wayland and nvidia drivers even possible?u/AnisZoomer•13 days agoIs wayland and nvidia drivers even possible?DISCUSSIONi got an nvidia card that works on 390 drivers and i am wondering if there is even a slight chance i can get any form of hyper land to work on it without a major performance loss
[Ayuda] No puedo cambiar el teclado a Español Latinoamérica en Arch + Hyprland + Caelestia [Ayuda] No puedo cambiar el teclado a Español Latinoamérica en Arch + Hyprland + Caelestiau/NvAlekz•13 days ago[Ayuda] No puedo cambiar el teclado a Español Latinoamérica en Arch + Hyprland + CaelestiaSUPPORTHola a todos, Estoy teniendo un problema con mi setup de Arch Linux + Hyprland + Caelestia dots. Básicamente, mi teclado sigue en US-english (US) y no hay forma de cambiarlo a español latinoamérica. He intentado varias cosas: loadkeys la-latin1 localectl set-keymap la-latin1 Modificar archivos de configuración como hyprland.conf y console.conf Cambiar keyboard layouts en Hyprland y Caelestia Nada de esto funciona y sigo con el layout en inglés. Mi objetivo es que el teclado funcione en Español Latinoamérica, incluyendo la ñ y tildes. ¿Alguien con experiencia en Hyprland o Arch podría darme una guía clara de cómo solucionarlo? Cualquier ayuda se agradecería mucho 🙏
Программы на подобии GearUp, lagofast или похожие на арч линукс. Программы на подобии GearUp, lagofast или похожие на арч линукс.u/Evening_Knowledge909•13 days agoПрограммы на подобии GearUp, lagofast или похожие на арч линукс.QUESTIONЗдравствуйте уважаемые знатоки, скажу сразу перешел на линукс совершенно недавно. И как житель дальнего востока столкнулся с проблемой высокого пинга на европейских серверах игр (так как я с дальнего востока России мне ближе сервера Японии 160 Европпа , 80 Япония) но без спец ПО с низким пингом на них зайти я не могу. На винде я использовал программы которые написал в заголовке, но на Арче не понимаю где их взять. Подскажите плз.
powersaving in gnome powersaving in gnomeu/BiscoitoToDoBR•13 days agopowersaving in gnomeQUESTIONhey guys, do anyone know how to make a personalizable button on the upper taskbar to change tdp settings or somekind of powersaving at arch GNOME?? my mac has a terrible battery life and i need to have a powersaving mode, i tried to look on extension manager something, but i only found some for ubuntu
samba usershare problem samba usershare problemu/fcwe1113•13 days agosamba usershare problemQUESTIONHi, i was trying to set up a usershare, however i got this error:net usershare add: cannot create tmp file /var/lib/samba/usershares/:tmpTxZhyqsambashares folder permissions:drwxrwx--T+ 1 root sambashare      0 Jan 31 00:29 usersharesand i checked i was in the sambashare group, i should also note that i do it in the dolphin gui, and if i run it with sudo in the terminal, it works. However I cannot for the life of me to make it work without sudoi am at a loss at this point, pls send help
Laptop freezing completely after 10 minutes of playing steam games Laptop freezing completely after 10 minutes of playing steam gamesu/ujztz•13 days agoLaptop freezing completely after 10 minutes of playing steam gamesSUPPORTI am pretty new to arch but am liking it a lot so far. The one thing frustrating me the most is this issue, which basically makes it impossible to enjoy games. It has only happened in that circumstance and leaves me with no option but to kill the pc with the power button, a practice I’d like to get rid of. It’s happened once with Minecraft but I assume it’s unrelated.I am using an Acer Swift 3, if you want any other technical details just tell me.Thanks for your time in advance, this is my first time posting here.
Well i wanted to suffer so here i am Well i wanted to suffer so here i amu/AsAsin18•13 days agoWell i wanted to suffer so here i amSUPPORTThe resolution is all wrong and I'm not allowed to switch it. It's using Wayland when i need direct x11, the nvidia drivers are the wrong version (590 instead of 550, GTX 1070ti). Also my main monitor isn't worthy of displaying arch. During installation i selected proprietary drivers for nvidia, idk what happened. If debian thought me anything that is to read the wiki. I believe this can be fixed by installing the right GPU drivers (correct me if im wrong). Can someone point me in the right direction?Thank you
Running as server Running as serveru/Stevied421•2 days agoRunning as serverQUESTIONI’m currently running manjaro as a headless system with jellyfin and home assistant only should I switch or will this be fine long term
RGB lights on prebuilt PC not on Open RGB RGB lights on prebuilt PC not on Open RGBu/lNSECTOID•2 days agoRGB lights on prebuilt PC not on Open RGBSUPPORTHello I have an acer predator orion 3000 gaming pc i bought around 3 years ago, i have recently switched to linux as i dont like the direction windows is going. everything works well and i am using arch, but the only thing i have a problem with is that i cannot use the "predatorsense" app that came with the windows install. not even wine will open it, and it controlled fan speed and RGB inside the computer....now i cant change anything and it keeps switching colours and i cant change the fan speeds so theyre set to default. which is fine i guess but the colours bother me a lot. Open RGB doesn't work with it.... im not sure what im doing wrong
Fresh Install Won't Accept keyboard input at LUKS prompt Fresh Install Won't Accept keyboard input at LUKS promptu/define_MACRO-DOSE•13 days agoFresh Install Won't Accept keyboard input at LUKS promptSUPPORT | SOLVEDIt's installed on an external NVME drive and when I boot it in Virtualbox it all works fine. and I can get to Getty.It's only when I boot it on my laptop directly that this issue occurs.I use GRUB for boot loader.> Partition scheme is:{/dev/sda1 == unencrypted /boot (Via GRUB)/dev/sda2 == LVMLVM PV == 1xVG w/LV schemed --> swap | root | homethe root and home are LUKS encrypted Logical Volumes and the swap is just a plain dm-crypt}The title and first sentence of post basically say it all.However the one important thing to note is that when I boot the drive in VBOX (where it works fine), grubs menu contains an additional entry for "UEFI FIRMWARE SETTINGS". This option does NOT appear in grubs menu when booting from Laptop directly;Telling me Something is either going on with that firmware on my Laptops side ( despite checking that with nvram -p [its a MacBook] ) or there's some type of stale entry from the partition table as I had an old install on it with GRUB as the boot loader previously on the disk and its important to note that I DIDNT WIPE THE OLD GUID TABLE, I just wiped the partition and re-schemed> The things I have tried so far:{- Ensuring UUIDS match across the board and matching syntax based on busy-box/systd based initramfs- adding additional usb modules to initramfs- fully switching between a busy-box and system based initramfs- check, delete, reorder nvram entries with efibootmgr}Thanks in advanced for Taking time to help ☯️EDIT: ISSUE RESOLVEDSOLUTION:My Mac Motherboard was still using the old GUID Table UUID, so it found grub but loaded a menu pointing to old entries from a past install.After deleting EFI entries and starting from scratch it no longer showed up on my Mac boot so I realized The main issue was because I was installing it to my external Nvme ssd  from a V-BOX Maschine with an iso attached, so when I rangrub-installit was setting theefibootmgrentries to the virtual Maschine as opposed to my machines motherboard and adding one for the enclosure as well which was odd.solved the issue by etching the iso to my Disk and redoing it for a 3rd time directly booted from my Maschine
Issue with Wayland: Logout after Login Issue with Wayland: Logout after Loginu/No-Street9156•14 days agoIssue with Wayland: Logout after LoginSUPPORTHello,When I try to login to my user I get a black screen for a second then I am back at the main screen. I was already looking around for solutions but couldn't find any. It was running normal before. between the steps I was checking if that fixed it, so far without luck.PC is running with Plasma and Wayland; NVIDIA Graphics and AMD processor. If you need some logs let me know, I am for whatever reason unable to call up a console in the loginscreen (ctrl+alt+F2/F4 doesnt work).During (or right after) the installation of updates I had a blackout - afterwards I was unable to boot, that I managed to fix (arch-chroom and mkinitcpio). Now I have the Issue that I try to log in -> password entered -> screen goes black -> back to main screen. When I type in a wrong password it says so.Boot from stick, connect to wifi2. manually mount hard drives in mnt and mnt/boot3. enter arch-chroom at mnt4. pacman -Syu5. mkinitcpio -p linuxAlready tried to re-install all packages (cant remember the exact command - essentially exported them into a txt, then tried to overwrite them), added another user thinking it might be an error there. No success. If I use a bootstick with arch image I can see all files and hard drives.Please note that I'd like to avoid nuking the PC and install it from scratch as I am in a Camp with limited internet at the moment (less about the OS, more about that 1 hard drive is full of games, other one with personal data - couldn't backup it)Any help would be appreciated.
Macbook 12 2017 on Arch Linux + Cosmic with working audio, mic and FaceTime camera Macbook 12 2017 on Arch Linux + Cosmic with working audio, mic and FaceTime camerau/just_in_ian•4 days agoMacbook 12 2017 on Arch Linux + Cosmic with working audio, mic and FaceTime cameraSUPPORT | SOLVEDAudio driver:https://github.com/juicecultus/macbook12-audio-driverFacetime camera driver:https://github.com/juicecultus/facetimehdPS: Keyboard backlight works out of the box once you install the power manager profiles (but only with the slider jn battery menu) WIP to get the keys assigned.
How to undervolt GPU, is this the correct way? Please correct me. How to undervolt GPU, is this the correct way? Please correct me.u/UniversityNervous545•4 days agoHow to undervolt GPU, is this the correct way? Please correct me.QUESTIONI've got an nvidia GPU, recently moved on from Windows 10. I used to undervolt my GTX 1660 Ti with Msi Afterburner t -200 mhz but at one point on the graph the mhz is set a bit higher than the standard. It reduced my temperatures to -5'C when playing while not reducing performance.On Arch this is what I did so farinstalled nvidia-utils and settingssudo nvidia-xconfig --cool-bits=28 to activate cool bits to enable overclocking and undervolting and other optionsinstall lact for gui to undervolt gpuIn Lact I notice my GPU power is max 120W and I can reduce the max power, and I can reduce core clock with GPU P-state 0 clock offset.There doesn't seem to much info on how to do this like with Afterburner. Should I just reduce the core clock to -200mhz like I did before, and Wattage to 100 or 110? There doesn't seem to be a way to increase the Core clock on only one point, like when it reaches a certain amount of power usage.My GPU temps are reaching 70-71'C and it used to run max 65-67 on Windows with undervolting.
AUR unexpected EOF AUR unexpected EOFu/gokuu_chan•13 days agoAUR unexpected EOFSUPPORT◎ paru -Syu                                                                                                               ⌂ 01:45 [sudo] password for gokuchan: :: Synchronizing package databases...  core is up to date  extra is up to date  multilib is up to date :: Starting full system upgrade...  there is nothing to do :: Looking for PKGBUILD upgrades... :: Looking for AUR upgrades... :: Looking for devel upgrades... error: error sending request for url (https://aur.archlinux.org/rpc): error trying to connect: unexpected EOF  ◄ 0s ⋈┈■ git clone https://aur.archlinux.org/yay                                                                          ⌂ 01:48 Found existing alias for "git". You should use: "g" Cloning into 'yay'... fatal: unable to access 'https://aur.archlinux.org/yay/': TLS connect error: error:0A000126:SSL routines::unexpected eof while reading  ◄ 0s ⋈┈◎ cat /etc/resolv.conf                                                                                             ⌂ 01:48 nameserver 1.1.1.1 nameserver 8.8.8.8 nameserver 8.8.4.4  ◄ 0s ⋈┈■ cat /etc/nsswitch.conf                                                                                           ⌂ 01:48 # Name Service Switch configuration file. # See nsswitch.conf(5) for details.  passwd: files systemd group: files [SUCCESS=merge] systemd shadow: files systemd gshadow: files systemd  publickey: files  hosts: mymachines files myhostname dns networks: files  protocols: files services: files ethers: files rpc: files  netgroup: filesany reason for this to happenits is like a hit or miss now sometimes it aur works sometime doesnt
How To Move a Folder to a New Partition and Keep Encryption? How To Move a Folder to a New Partition and Keep Encryption?u/CosmicMerchant•2 days agoHow To Move a Folder to a New Partition and Keep Encryption?SUPPORTHow To Move a Folder to a New Partition and Keep Encryption?r/linuxquestions•2 days agoHow To Move a Folder to a New Partition and Keep Encryption?I have to admit it's not very arch specific, even though I'm on vanilla Arch, but the community here is too knowledgeable to miss out on the opportunity!3upvotes·1comment
MSI B550/Katana - "Firmware" error on boot after MBR to GPT conversion (Arch Linux on External HDD) MSI B550/Katana - "Firmware" error on boot after MBR to GPT conversion (Arch Linux on External HDD)u/Beautiful_Noise7903•7 days agoMSI B550/Katana - "Firmware" error on boot after MBR to GPT conversion (Arch Linux on External HDD)SUPPORTHi everyone, I need help with a persistent "Firmware" error on two MSI machines (MPG B550 Gaming Plus desktop and Katana laptop) when trying to boot Arch Linux from an external Seagate HDD.Originally, the OS was installed on this external drive in MBR/Legacy mode and it was working perfectly on my desktop PC. I converted it to GPT to make it compatible with my MSI Katana laptop.I created a 1GB EFI System Partition on /dev/sda1 (Type: EFI System). I reinstalled GRUB using: grub-install --target=x86_64-efi --efi-directory=/boot --bootloader-id=BOOT --removable --force.Both PCs show a black screen with "Firmware" at the top left. In BIOS, Boot Mode is set to UEFI (CSM disabled), Secure Boot is Disabled, and Trusted Computing is Disabled. Selecting "UEFI OS" in F11 menu doesn't work.Any idea why it fails in GPT/UEFI while it worked fine in MBR/Legacy? Is there a specific MSI setting I'm missing? Thanks!
Laptop touchpad suddenly stopped working Laptop touchpad suddenly stopped workingu/Darox28•14 days agoLaptop touchpad suddenly stopped workingSUPPORTI was playing factorio and suddenly the touchpad decided to stop working.I've tried fixing it by searching online, but to no avail.If I connect a mouse or a drawing tablet the cursor works, but no touchpad.I've also checked the "disable touchpad" key, doesn't work either. After rebooting the system and checking the touchpad settings it shows as disabled, but after enabling it it still doesn't work.This is what I get after running xinput list:⎡ Virtual core pointer                          id=2    [master pointer  (3)] ⎜   ↳ Virtual core XTEST pointer                id=4    [slave  pointer  (2)] ⎜   ↳ xwayland-pointer:10                       id=6    [slave  pointer  (2)] ⎜   ↳ xwayland-relative-pointer:10              id=7    [slave  pointer  (2)] ⎜   ↳ xwayland-pointer-gestures:10              id=8    [slave  pointer  (2)] ⎜   ↳ xwayland-tablet stylus:10                 id=10   [slave  pointer  (2)] ⎜   ↳ xwayland-tablet eraser:10                 id=11   [slave  pointer  (2)] ⎜   ↳ xwayland-tablet cursor:10                 id=12   [slave  pointer  (2)] ⎣ Virtual core keyboard                         id=3    [master keyboard (2)]     ↳ Virtual core XTEST keyboard               id=5    [slave  keyboard (3)]     ↳ xwayland-keyboard:10                      id=9    [slave  keyboard (3)]  Thanks in advance
Should i switch to arch? Should i switch to arch?u/AsAsin18•13 days agoShould i switch to arch?QUESTIONI can barely use debian as is but i feel like suffering everytime i open up my PC. Is this the right choice?Thank you.
Intellij have blurry interface Intellij have blurry interfaceu/Least_Car7122•2 days agoIntellij have blurry interfaceQUESTIONI installed arch for the first time and riced it pretty good. I used hyprland for that. now I need functionality so I installed intellij community edition but I has very grainy interface. I tried to find the fix but everywhere the solution for blurry interface is for every application being so I don't know if I should apply that fixif you do have solution please help
Windows-like remote desktop on Wayland (Plasma 6 with an NVIDIA card, if relevant) Windows-like remote desktop on Wayland (Plasma 6 with an NVIDIA card, if relevant)u/Proof_Meringue618•14 days agoWindows-like remote desktop on Wayland (Plasma 6 with an NVIDIA card, if relevant)QUESTIONDoes this exist yet? Is there a Linux server that will work like Windows RDP? One that will let me lock the host computer's display while still presenting me with a usable desktop on my client the way Windows does? Or is VNC still the only option, forcing the host to remain unlocked and accessible while I'm using it from another location?I don't care about complexity or if there's configuration that will involve the command line etc. I just want something that works as "simple" as RDP, and it's frustrating that there isn't anything close to it on Linux yet. Everything I've researched so far either requires X11 to function like this, or leaves the desktop session unlocked.
Thinkpad T14 G4 Intel or AMD? Thinkpad T14 G4 Intel or AMD?u/ElectricalPanic1999•14 days agoThinkpad T14 G4 Intel or AMD?DISCUSSIONThinkpad T14 G4 Intel or AMD?r/linuxquestions•14 days agoThinkpad T14 G4 Intel or AMD?I'm planning to buy my first thinkpad laptop. Honestly, I want to go for AMD because of performance considerations.But, after comparing the hardware compatibility between theAMDandIntelmodel, the Intel modelless likelyto have issues. Is it agenuinehardware compatibility problem or the Intel model issues haven't reported yet?Do you guys have any advice? Thanks.7comments
Beginner!! computer crashing? help wanted Beginner!! computer crashing? help wantedu/toxicspiderman•14 days agoBeginner!! computer crashing? help wantedSUPPORT | SOLVEDI know I may be a masochist for wanting to use arch after only using linux for 5 months but i really like it and im wanting to learn more about linux and i feel like forcing my self to dive into it is gonna make me better. really all I want is some ideas to trouble shoot before i try switching to another kernel to see if its my PSU.the issue is that after say an hr after boot my computer shuts down and doesn't reboot until I reboot it my self, at first I thought I though I flipped a breaker and it wasn't that. I've looked at every log after it crashed each time and nothing seems to be causing the crash but  rather that it's losing power from something thing. I've also tried to reinstall arch and it still does it so that why I'm thinking it might be a hardware issue but its weird i wan't having this issue until i switch to arch 3 days ago. Also I does this when idleKernel: Linux 6.18.7-arch1-1DE: KDE Plasma 6.5.5CPU: AMD Ryzen 9 3900X (24) @ 4.67 GHzGPU: NVIDIA GeForce RTX 2080 Ti Rev. A [Discrete]Memory: 3.10 GiB / 31.26 GiB (10%)Swap: 0 B / 15.63 GiB (0%)Edit: thermals are fine tried messing around with kde plasma thinking it was bugging with sleep mode turn that off this time it "crashed" about 2 hrs later will try to switch to LTS kernal Edit: It was PSU
bootctl install failed to fix missing entries after update. weird `//` path involved ? bootctl install failed to fix missing entries after update. weird `//` path involved ?u/SufficientAbility821•3 days agobootctl install failed to fix missing entries after update. weird `//` path involved ?SUPPORT | SOLVEDWhile booting this morning, I couldn't find my boot entries anymore and ended up in my UEFI. For context: I usesystemd-bootand luks encryptionI booted from a LiveUSB, chrooted into my systemcryptsetup luksOpen /dev/nvme0n1p2 root mount /dev/mapper/root /mnt mount /dev/nvme0n1p1 /mnt/boot arch-chroot /mntin order to fix the issue withbootctl.bootctl listshowed me the entries were listed but a detail stroke me: the paths were not right.source: /boot//loader/entries/2025..........conf (on the EFI system partition) # OK but why the '//', weird linux: /boot//vmlinuz-linux (no such file or directory) initrd: /boot//initramfs-linux.img (no such file or directory)The two.confwere created by archinstall several months ago. Despite of the//, they seem found bybootctland, to my knowledge, they haven't changed while the rest of the/bootpartition might had during my last update (hypothesis), for there is no sign ofvmlinuz-linuxnor initramfs-linux.img in this partition.From this point, I followedthe relevant part of the wiki, I checked that I am in UEFI mode (get output fromefivar --list) but none of mybootctl --path =/boot install(I also tried various-path) worked. The.efiare copied but I always getNot booted with EFI or running in container, skipping EFI variable modificationand my entries are not changed. Providing a--esp-pathdid not help either (not the root of the filesystemtype of error). Should I create a new conf inloader/entriesmyself, is it supposed to be handled bybootctlor some other tool is supposed to handle this part? I reached the point where those little but numerous doubts prevent me from having a clear picture of what happened and how to fix it.
ARch Linux KDE Missing task panel ARch Linux KDE Missing task panelu/Cheap_Comfortable678•14 days agoARch Linux KDE Missing task panelSUPPORTRocking Arch Linux for the first time after 20 years of Windows.After every boot or reboot, panel at the bottom of the desktop is missing, the only way I found to get it back is to go : desktop right click > enter edit mode > manage desktops and panels > sandwich button on panel delete/remove > then UI notification appears with "undo" once undone it appears.Even when not "shown" it has dedicated place it is there, but not visually.Thank you.
Cannot control the volume of speakers Cannot control the volume of speakersu/TomorrowImpossible67•14 days agoCannot control the volume of speakersSUPPORTI am facing issue with controlling volume on Razer Leviathan V2 speaker. Volume control slider in UI (as well as hardware buttons on my keyboard and speaker itself) changes the volume slider as they should, but it does not affect the actual sound coming out of the speaker (unless I move it to zero, in which case its correctly being muted). Only thing that actually controls the sound is the volume sliders on stuff like youtube videos etc.Here is what I have tried:When runningalsamixer, initially I get a single soundbar labeled "master", which changes according to my volume controls (but again, no effect on sound). If I press F6 and select Leviathan speaker, I get two bars, "PCM" and "PCM 1". "PCM" bar moves when I press volume controls, but does not affect sound, "PCM 1" bar does not move, but when I change it from alsamixer, it does control the volume.I checkedpavucontroloutput device is correctly configured to my speaker, with port being Analog Output.ChatGPT suggested making a config file in~/.config/wireplumber/wireplumber.conf.d/and putting some Lua code there, I tried bunch of different versions, none of them worked.I need to somehow map the volume control from my input to this "PCM 1" bar, but I have been unable to figure this out. I tried making new shortcuts mapped to volume buttons that run following commands:amixer -c 1 sset PCM,1 5%-(volume down)amixer -c 1 sset PCM,1 5%+(volume up)But for some reason only volume up works (even though when running these commands in terminal, they both work). And also while volume up changes the actual sound, it does not change the "software" volume slider.Any help would be appreciated.
Triple booting Arch Linux + Cosmic on Macbook 12 inch retina with audio and mic working Triple booting Arch Linux + Cosmic on Macbook 12 inch retina with audio and mic workingu/just_in_ian•4 days agoTriple booting Arch Linux + Cosmic on Macbook 12 inch retina with audio and mic workingSHAREJust fixed the audio and mic driver which wasn't compiling on 6.17+ kernels and working like a charm on this 2017Macbook 12" (Macbook 10,1).I just love this Macbook, the slimmest and lightest ever made. Everything works except for the webcam (which is WIP and ready soon).Fixed audio driver (forked):https://github.com/juicecultus/macbook12-audio-driver (if it helps you jump onto more modern kernels, feel free to buy me a coffee ☺️)
Guide: Self-hosting an Arch Linux mirror Guide: Self-hosting an Arch Linux mirroru/IncidentSpecial5053•21 days agoGuide: Self-hosting an Arch Linux mirrorSHARESet up my own Arch mirror after getting tired of slow nearby mirrors. Syncs from tier 1 mirrors every 6 hours. Covers rsync setup, nginx config, cron automation, and pacman configuration.https://foss-daily.org/posts/archlinux-mirror/
Beginner Tutorial Citing Arch Wiki Beginner Tutorial Citing Arch Wikiu/xTouny•16 days agoBeginner Tutorial Citing Arch WikiDISCUSSIONHello,It took me a while to gain familiarity with linux, before starting to use Arch Wiki. I want to make the transition to it more accessible. All linux tutorials I found do not incentivize reading the foundations.I thought of contributing a new series of tutorials for beginners, in which the Arch Wiki is cited.HEREis an example.Questions.Is that contribution useful for users of theNewbie Cornerof forum?Is that contribution valuable for PRO users who may consult forums for a quick troubleshoot?Do you advice anything regarding the organization or writing style?
can't access google drive in dolphin on Arch Linux (KDE) can't access google drive in dolphin on Arch Linux (KDE)u/jigenn7422•14 days agocan't access google drive in dolphin on Arch Linux (KDE)SUPPORTcan't access google drive in dolphin on Arch Linuxr/kde•14 days agocan't access google drive in dolphin on Arch LinuxI logged in succesfully and added a google online account for kde, but it won't let me in the directory in network: drive and give me access denied, similarly to how it blocks me from the root folder, is this a local permission issue or a google drive issue by itself? the common fix of using GNOMEID instead did absolutely nothing, and I have all dependencies and the whole system up to date, so please dont lead me in circles because I already did that, please help4upvotes·4comments
Just Released: My Color Picker App – Built in Rust with Slint, Now on GitHub & AUR! Just Released: My Color Picker App – Built in Rust with Slint, Now on GitHub & AUR!u/Mujtaba1i•2 days agoJust Released: My Color Picker App – Built in Rust with Slint, Now on GitHub & AUR!SHAREHey everyone!After weeks of tinkering and learning, I finally finished my color picker app written entirely in Rust using Slint for the GUI. It’s designed to be look like powertoys color picker it's fast and lightweight.Features:Pick colors anywhere on your screenSupports multiple formats (HEX, RGB, HSL, HSV) Works seamlessly on Arch LinuxTry it out: GitHub:https://github.com/Mujtaba1i/ArchtoysAUR:https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/archtoysYou can install it with paru -S archtoys
minikube and kubeseal packages can't be updated due to marginal trust? minikube and kubeseal packages can't be updated due to marginal trust?u/rubins•4 days agominikube and kubeseal packages can't be updated due to marginal trust?SUPPORT | SOLVEDI'm getting the following:$ sudo pacman -Syu :: Synchronizing package databases...  core is up to date  extra is up to date  multilib is up to date  custom is up to date  sublime-text is up to date :: Starting full system upgrade... resolving dependencies... looking for conflicting packages...  Packages (2) kubeseal-0.34.0-1  minikube-1.38.0-1  Total Download Size:    26.37 MiB Total Installed Size:  132.63 MiB Net Upgrade Size:        0.06 MiB  :: Proceed with installation? [Y/n] :: Retrieving packages...  kubeseal-0.34.0-...     8.3 MiB  3.06 MiB/s 00:03 [######################] 100%  minikube-1.38.0-...    18.1 MiB  4.19 MiB/s 00:04 [######################] 100%  Total (2/2)            26.4 MiB  6.08 MiB/s 00:04 [######################] 100% (2/2) checking keys in keyring                     [######################] 100% (2/2) checking package integrity                   [######################] 100% error: kubeseal: signature from "Christian Rebischke (Archlinux Security Team-Member) <chris.rebischke@archlinux.org>" is marginal trust :: File /var/cache/pacman/pkg/kubeseal-0.34.0-1-x86_64.pkg.tar.zst is corrupted (invalid or corrupted package (PGP signature)). Do you want to delete it? [Y/n]Who is Chris Rebischke and why are his public keys not fully trusted in the Arch keychain (apparently)?Update: Robin Candau re-signed and updated the packages, and updating works again.
GPGME error: no data GPGME error: no datau/Resident-Parsley-643•14 days agoGPGME error: no dataSUPPORT | SOLVEDHello, I’ve been using several distros on my thinkpad and I’ve wanted to try out arch Linux since everyone is saying one of the hardest distros to install. Videos made it seem simple from just using the arch install command, I also did the manual version but got the same thing. It got stuck on the boot screen. The following code error:Error: GPGME error: No dataError: GPGME error: No dataError: failed to synchronize all databases (invalid or corrupted database (PGP signature)I’m trying to get arch install before Monday feb 2.Used Rufus and balena etcher to flash a USB drive.
Noob questions Noob questionsu/DonFiddles•2 days agoNoob questionsQUESTIONHi,Im a total beginner with Linux so far. I used it a little bit in school and at work. But I decided to change to Linux for my home pc now because fck Bill Gates and Microsoft.I mainly use my pc for gaming and I’m not sure if arch is the best distro for that. I am a bit scared to run into problems later on.I wanted to install arch because for what I have read so far it has the best ricing possibilities. Is that correct?Can you recommend the journey I chose or is it better to start with a more easy distro?
dual boot question dual boot questionu/Odin_69•14 days agodual boot questionSUPPORT | SOLVEDI'm making the poor choice of wanting to play league of legends with some friends lately, and need some resource help.  I have two drives on my arch pc, one nvme and one ssd that I use for extra storage, and would like to add a windows partition to my second drive for this case alone.  From what I've gathered windows tends to dislike this and I'm having a hard time finding the best way to go about it.  I do, however, have the ability to buy another ssd if that would make the process easier.So the main question. Do I yolo a partition, and install windows, or will that cause more issues than it's worth? If I get another ssd can I simply install windows on the whole drive and get right into it or are there other steps i'm missing?Thank you for the help.Everything went smooth.  If I were to recommend anything it would be to create the windows install media on a windows pc since the process of doing that on linux is still cancer.Steps I followed:shrink partition on the drive I was going to install windows on.  I created about 200g of free space just encase i want it for more uses.Create the windows boot usb.  Like i said I did this on a windows machine because I had issues trying to do this on arch.  Others more familiar have reported the process working just fine but I couldn't get anything to work.  Just get it from a windows machine.Go through windows setup like normal, just be sure to install it in the unallocated space.  Depending on the motherboard and I'm sure a host of other setups you may need to follow extra steps to allow for boot selection.  My motherboard had this functionality built in so i can swap back and fourth from the startup. (F12 i think is my boot menu key, del is my bios. at any rate it says as such when the splash screen comes up on restart so I'm fine in that department but others might not be.)"Enjoy" having a windows install.  It can sit right along side of my other "favorite" things like kernal level anticheats, people who talk at the theater, and tongs that don't quite open all the way.
Can't mount new BTRFS subvolume Can't mount new BTRFS subvolumeu/NoeXWolf•2 days agoCan't mount new BTRFS subvolumeSUPPORTCan't mount new subvolumer/btrfs•2 days agoCan't mount new subvolumeI'm facing an issue with BTRFS subvolumes in Arch.My initial layout is the following :@mounted on/@homemounted on/home@var_logmounted on/var/log@var_cache_pacmanmounted on/var/cache/pacmanNow, whenever i try to create a new subvolume, let's say@swapbecause i want to create a swapfile, I'm facing the following problem :$ mkdir /swap  $ sudo btrfs subvolume create /@swap Create subvolume '//@swap'  $ sudo mount -o compress=zstd,subvol=@swap /dev/nvme0n1p2 /swap mount: /swap: fsconfig() failed: No such file or directory.     dmesg(1) may have more information after failed mount system call.Nothing is in dmesg, and for some reason it created a/@swapfolder.I faced the same issue while trying to create a/@snapshotssubvolume for snapper and ended up deleting snapper.1comment
Battery Drain overnight Battery Drain overnightu/Technical_Dot_808•4 days agoBattery Drain overnightQUESTIONI have just installed Arch using the archinstall script and using hyprland, i am relatively new to arch and i have noticed that overnight my laptop looses nearly up to 30% of the battery and i used chatgpt and it told me to run this commandcat /sys/power/mem_sleepand i gots2idleand from what i heard it says that my system-boot doesnt support deep sleep, also i looked into hibernate and everytime i turn on my laptop after hibernate the wifi drivers are completely broken and i cant scan at all using either the NetworkManager Gui and theip linkI’d really appreciate any suggestions on how to reduce battery drain overnight. I’m also open to general advice for using Arch properly, including useful tools, services, or best practices that might help me in the long run
Bluetooth configuration for AIAIAI Headphones since they crash my sessions. Bluetooth configuration for AIAIAI Headphones since they crash my sessions.u/loki518•2 days agoBluetooth configuration for AIAIAI Headphones since they crash my sessions.SUPPORT | SOLVEDI also asked this in ther/archsubreddit, idk if that's okay to repost here as well. If not I'll gladly remove.----Hello,I got an issue regarding my headphones from AIAIAI.I recently switched to arch (btw) and wanted to connect my headphones from AIAIAI (I got the S10 speakers with support for SBC/AAC codecs and bluetooth 5.0) via bluetooth.I did all the required steps with bluez, bluez-utils, tried out different frontends, and whenever I want to change to headset mode to hds/hfs settings my session just crashes. Black screen crashes until a few seconds later i see the login screen again.I have tried for 5 hours to fix that issue, I can get the connections sometimes without crashing via both AAC and HSP/HFP mSBC (I could get these settings with pavucontrol) but it requires multiple tries and crashes.How can I fix this? Also if you need more information (probably) please tell me what I should provide. Thank you very much for your help <3
После входа в спящий режим экран не загарается. После входа в спящий режим экран не загарается.u/No-Throat-7986•3 days agoПосле входа в спящий режим экран не загарается.SUPPORTarch linux, rtx 3060. через gnome вошел в спящий режим, теперь монитор не видит компьютера, могу заходить в терминал но ничего не помогает.обновлено: решение нашел, сделал полное обесточивание:выключение пк из розеткизажатие кнопки выключения на секунд 20включение
Data Recovery from a Broken BTRFS System when Fallback system broke | 当你无法进入fallback系统，数据还能救回来吗 Data Recovery from a Broken BTRFS System when Fallback system broke | 当你无法进入fallback系统，数据还能救回来吗u/AccomplishedChain834•14 days agoData Recovery from a Broken BTRFS System when Fallback system broke | 当你无法进入fallback系统，数据还能救回来吗SUPPORT | SOLVEDData Recovery from Inaccessible BTRFS Partition After NVMe Suspend FailureThis is a document and log not general instructionContext:Arch Linux system became unbootable after suspend/resume failure. NVMe partition completely inaccessible - all mount attempts failed. This documents the recovery steps that worked.Hardware:NVMe SSD, BTRFS filesystem with @ and @home subvolumesSymptoms:Laptop failed to wake from suspendForce restart resulted in unbootable systemPartition present in/dev/but inaccessibleAll mount attempts failedRecovery Steps1. Create Disk ImagePurpose:Backup + potentially trigger NVMe controller resetsudo dd if=/dev/nvme1n1p5 of=/media/backup/image.dd bs=1M status=progressResult:110GB image created. After this operation, the partition became accessible (NVMe controller state changed).2. Verify Imagefile image.dd # Output: BTRFS Filesystem label "sdx2", UUID=ba2c12fd-...3. Setup Loop Device and Check Subvolumessudo losetup /dev/loop0 /path/to/image.dd sudo mount -o ro /dev/loop0 /mnt sudo btrfs subvolume list /mnt sudo umount /mntFound subvolumes:@- root filesystem@home- user data@cache,@log- caches/logs4. Mount Specific Subvolumesudo mount -o ro,subvol=@home /dev/loop0 /mnt5. Extract Data# Critical user data cp -r /mnt/User/.local/share/Anki2 ~/.local/share/ cp -r /mnt/User/.config/obsidian ~/.config/ cp -r /mnt/User/.mozilla/firefox ~/.mozilla/ cp -r /mnt/User/.ssh ~/.ssh/  # Personal files cp -r /mnt/User/Documents ~/Documents/ cp -r /mnt/User/Downloads ~/Downloads/6. Verify RecoveryAll data successfully extracted:Anki: 691MB, all decks intactObsidian: 1.3GB, two vaults recoveredFirefox: 615MB, bookmarks/passwords presentSSH keys: 7 filesWhat Workeddd operation- Created backup AND triggered NVMe device resetLoop device mount- Allowed safe read-only accessSelective copy- Extracted user data only, not system configsWhat NOT to CopyDo not copy system configuration from damaged system:/etc/configs (hardware-specific)/boot/files/usr/binariesTools Useddd- imaginglosetup- loop devicebtrfs- subvolume managementcp- data extractionEnvironmentRecovery performed using Arch Linux Live USB.NotesThis specific sequence worked for NVMe suspend-induced failureNot a general BTRFS recovery guideYour mileage may vary depending on corruption type
ERROR: Failed to install packages to new root ERROR: Failed to install packages to new rootu/kirsanrx•3 days agoERROR: Failed to install packages to new rootSUPPORT | SOLVEDhi,been trying to install arch following archwiki install guide. after formatting and mounting partitions i used [pacstrap -K /], which started installing but ended with [error: config file /tmp/pacman.conf.s5xj could not be read: no such file or directory]. i checked internet connectivity, and boot root and home partitions are mounted. does anyone know what could be the issue? thanks
a look at the past a look at the pastu/sina-is-an-egg•12 days agoa look at the pastDISCUSSIONi tried installing arch version 0.1 in a vm. it was way harder than now. you had to compile the kernel with the right modules and fs support, if you didn't, your whole installation was bricked. and let's just say that compiling an entire kernel on old machines wasn't fast at all. also, no fancy genfstab! you had to write the filesystem table BY HAND. no handholding. no archinstall. no grub automatically detecting your root partition's uuid, hell, you had to work with bare device paths. no webpage to babysit you throughout the installation, just an install.txt file somewhere on the installation media. but you at least had funny stuff like installworld. also, LILO sucks ass.
Is there a more keyboard-friendly alternative to zenity? Is there a more keyboard-friendly alternative to zenity?u/Silvestron•6 days agoIs there a more keyboard-friendly alternative to zenity?QUESTIONIs there a more keyboard-friendly alternative to zenity?r/linuxquestions•6 days agoIs there a more keyboard-friendly alternative to zenity?I use fuzzel in dmenu mode for most of my needs when I want some sort of interactive popup but it has its limitations.Zenity is closer to what I want but I can't interact with it using hjkl or ctrl+p ctrl+n keys.Are there alternatives?2upvotes
Need help with Bluetooth adapters :KDE Need help with Bluetooth adapters :KDEu/Just_Smidge•3 days agoNeed help with Bluetooth adapters :KDESUPPORTI have recently gotten a new Bluetooth adapter (TP-Link-UB500-Plus) and its working finebut i am having troubles with turning off the internal Bluetooth adapter. ive set [Policy] AutoEnable=false and in bluetoothctl ive set it to power off, but KDE (im asuming its KDEs fault and not bluetoothctls fault) is still defaulting to using the internal adapter instead of the new TP-Link, i suspect this may be because the internal one initializes before the new TP-Link.ive already checked the bluetoothctl wiki page and didnt fine anything more than what ive done.if anyone knows how to make sure the TP-Link is the default adapter i would appreciate the help.
Beware, upgrading to tigervnc 1.16.0-1 silently removes vncviewer Beware, upgrading to tigervnc 1.16.0-1 silently removes vncvieweru/__mson__•20 days agoBeware, upgrading to tigervnc 1.16.0-1 silently removes vncviewerNOTEWORTHYhttps://gitlab.archlinux.org/archlinux/packaging/packages/tigervnc/-/commit/c55a984de590bbb53ecd97c7603ccf03e6fd1c3a
A lot of errors related to input group in Waybar A lot of errors related to input group in Waybaru/lolololloloolmemes•4 days agoA lot of errors related to input group in WaybarSUPPORTSo when I run waybar I’m having issues with it not changing according to the config, this is really annoying as I’m trying to set up a program with lutris that minimises itself and can only be accessed via a tray, however I’m on hyprland so by default I don’t have this but have meta + s which isn’t bringing anything up, so my next step is I read the waybar logs, there are a bunch of warnings but majority of them are related to /dev/input they read like this.Can’t open /dev/input/mouse1 (are you in the input group?): EACCES PERMISSION DENIEDSo I search it up, and the results are that I need to change permissions and that should resolve both the input group error and the waybar not changing to fit the config.Okay cool, I create a new group add myself to it and add myself to it and give it /dev/input permissions, nothing, weird I think, so I run ls -al /dev/input and in the little user/group section it’s all just root, but i got no errors on any of the permission changing commands i did, so i think it must have bugged and run it again, still only says root and still input group error, i try to add myself to the input group, no errors i id myself and im added to both the group I created and the input group, so i run ls -ald /dev/inputAnd the output is“drwxr-xr-x - wondr(that’s my user for future reference) 8 Feb 18:25 /dev/input”So to me that looks like I have the permissions right? But it’s still not working and every answer is all just related to lack of input group permissions so I don’t really know where to go from here, are my permissions wrong? Am I missing something? Any help is greatly appreciated:)
Gaze20 Hybrid Graphics on Arch Gaze20 Hybrid Graphics on Archu/nickpantss•4 days agoGaze20 Hybrid Graphics on ArchSUPPORTGaze20 Hybrid Graphics on Archr/System76•4 days agoGaze20 Hybrid Graphics on ArchI recently switched over my Gaze20 from PopOS with cosmic to Arch with KDE, in order to bring it more in line with the setup I have on my desktop (no offense to PopOS). I followed all the instructions to setup the proprietary system76 drivers, so that the fan and the hybrid graphics would work, but now I am getting this weird electronic buzzing/popping noises on the right side of my keyboard. Its not super loud, but loud enough where I'm bothered by  it if I'm using my laptop without headphones. I am sure this was not present when I was using PopOS and cosmic. I am also sure it was not present before installing the system76 firmware/drivers/power-daemonOn top of this, I'm not even convinced the hybrid graphics are working. When in hybrid mode, nvidia-smi shows the 5050 to be off (although the power draw does increase when in a game with the dedicated GPU active in the application settings on KDE) and if I set it to nvidia mode, I cannot boot into SDDM/KDE. It boots fine on hybrid/integrated mode.I followed the system76 driver setup completely, and have all the system76 firmware/drivers/power packages installed and their associated services activated, as well as the firmware completely updated. I am also on the latest nvidia-open drivers.Does anyone have any suggestions to get this working properly and to stop the electronic buzzing/popping noise? Do I need anything not listed on the system76 support pages to get this working properly? Are the system76 drivers the best way to set up hybrid graphics on a non-popOS system?5upvotes
Bluetooth Pairing Issue in Dual-Boot Systems | 双系统蓝牙设备配对问题解决方案 Bluetooth Pairing Issue in Dual-Boot Systems | 双系统蓝牙设备配对问题解决方案u/AccomplishedChain834•14 days agoBluetooth Pairing Issue in Dual-Boot Systems | 双系统蓝牙设备配对问题解决方案SUPPORT | SOLVEDThis post is available in two languages with the same content. The solution was tested in practice using a Bluetooth headset and proved to be feasible. 本文提供两种语言版本，内容相同。 该解决方案已使用蓝牙耳机进行了实际测试，结果证明可行。Bluetooth Pairing Issue in Dual-Boot SystemsProblemBluetooth devices require re-pairing after switching between Windows and Linux.Root CauseEach operating system stores independent Bluetooth pairing keys, causing the device to fail recognition after system switches.Solution StepsPrerequisitesYou must pair the device in both systems firstto ensure complete pairing information is generated.Option 1: Copy Windows Key to Linux1. Get Windows Bluetooth KeyInstall PsTools:winget install pstoolsRun Command Prompt as Administrator and launch Registry Editor with SYSTEM privileges:psexec -s -i regeditNavigate to:HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\BTHPORT\Parameters\KeysFind the path:Keys\[Bluetooth Adapter MAC]\[Device MAC]Record the key value.2. Modify Linux Pairing InformationStop Bluetooth service:sudo systemctl stop bluetoothEdit pairing file:sudo vim /var/lib/bluetooth/[Adapter MAC]/[Device MAC]/infoFind theKey=line and replace with Windows key value.Restart Bluetooth service:sudo systemctl start bluetoothOption 2: Copy Linux Key to Windows1. Get Linux KeyView Linux pairing information:sudo cat /var/lib/bluetooth/[Adapter MAC]/[Device MAC]/info | grep KeyRecord the Key value.2. Modify Windows RegistryUse PsTools to open Registry Editor with SYSTEM privileges:psexec -s -i regeditNavigate to the corresponding device registry key and enter the Linux key value.Useful Commands# List Bluetooth devices bluetoothctl devices  # Control Bluetooth service sudo systemctl stop bluetooth sudo systemctl start bluetooth  # View pairing information sudo cat /var/lib/bluetooth/*/*/info | grep KeyDoneImportant NotesBackup original configuration before modificationKey format may require case conversionTest between both systems after modification双系统蓝牙设备配对问题解决方案问题描述在Windows和Linux双系统间切换时，蓝牙设备需要重复配对。原理每个操作系统保存独立的蓝牙配对密钥，导致切换系统后设备无法识别。解决步骤前提条件必须先在两个系统中都完成一次配对，确保系统生成完整的配对信息。方案一：将Windows密钥复制到Linux1. 获取Windows蓝牙密钥安装PsTools：winget install pstools以管理员身份运行命令提示符，启动超级权限的注册表编辑器：psexec -s -i regedit导航到：HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\BTHPORT\Parameters\Keys找到路径：Keys\[蓝牙适配器MAC地址]\[设备MAC地址]记录密钥值。2. 修改Linux配对信息停止蓝牙服务：sudo systemctl stop bluetooth编辑配对文件：sudo vim /var/lib/bluetooth/[蓝牙适配器MAC]/[设备MAC]/info找到Key=行，替换为Windows的密钥值。重启蓝牙服务：sudo systemctl start bluetooth方案二：将Linux密钥复制到Windows1. 获取Linux密钥查看Linux配对信息：sudo cat /var/lib/bluetooth/[蓝牙适配器MAC]/[设备MAC]/info | grep Key记录Key值。2. 修改Windows注册表使用PsTools以SYSTEM权限打开注册表编辑器：psexec -s -i regedit导航到相应设备的注册表项，将Linux的密钥值写入。常用命令# 查看蓝牙设备 bluetoothctl devices  # 控制蓝牙服务 sudo systemctl stop bluetooth sudo systemctl start bluetooth  # 查看配对信息 sudo cat /var/lib/bluetooth/*/*/info | grep Key完成注意事项修改前备份原始配置注意密钥格式可能需要大小写转换修改后在两个系统间测试验证
Is aur down or is it my internet issue? Is aur down or is it my internet issue?u/sijanvusal•14 days agoIs aur down or is it my internet issue?SUPPORT | SOLVEDparu -Syu[sudo] password for sijan::: Synchronizing package databases...core is up to dateextra is up to date:: Starting full system upgrade...there is nothing to do:: Looking for PKGBUILD upgrades...:: Looking for AUR upgrades...:: Looking for devel upgrades...error: error sending request for url (https://aur.archlinux.org/rpc): error trying to connect: Connection reset by peer (os error 104)~ ❯ ping -c 3aur.archlinux.orgPINGaur.archlinux.org(2604:cac0:a104:d::2) 56 data bytes64 bytes from 2604:cac0:a104:d::2: icmp_seq=1 ttl=52 time=203 ms64 bytes from 2604:cac0:a104:d::2: icmp_seq=2 ttl=52 time=211 ms64 bytes from 2604:cac0:a104:d::2: icmp_seq=3 ttl=52 time=236 ms---aur.archlinux.orgping statistics ---3 packets transmitted, 3 received, 0% packet loss, time 2000msrtt min/avg/max/mdev = 203.464/216.708/235.777/13.819 ms
is there any way to add bloom around my text, and maybe a crt effect? (doubtful on the second one) is there any way to add bloom around my text, and maybe a crt effect? (doubtful on the second one)u/Prudent_Sun5041•14 days agois there any way to add bloom around my text, and maybe a crt effect? (doubtful on the second one)SUPPORTis there any way to add bloom around my text, and maybe a crt effect? (doubtful on the second one)r/KittyTerminal•14 days agois there any way to add bloom around my text, and maybe a crt effect? (doubtful on the second one)(I'm trying to go for an old terminal look, if it wasn't obvious. tips with other things relating to that would also be great!)5upvotes·2comments
Update: windows update deleted my bootloader Update: windows update deleted my bootloaderu/Reincarnated_As_Bob•25 days agoUpdate: windows update deleted my bootloaderSHAREjust to clarify, this is practically my fault which I will explain below. I just wanted to share this because it may serve as a cautionary tale to those still very new to linux and want to try Arch, and some of you get to laugh at my stupidity so win-winSo I have a habit of reinstalling my OSes every once in a while and I don't know why. Even if my system is running fine I still tend to reinstall it again at some point when I feel like it. It's no different with Arch.So while I was reinstalling Arch, I accidentally installed grub on my main windows ssd, and not where I was going to install arch. That caused a few issues because then my swap failed to activate and my efi wouldn't mount so yeah.. it's fine, all I had to do was install grub in the correct path and all is well.Checking BIOS I did notice that I had two instances of grub which made sense. I thought that would cause issues at some point, but I decided to ignore it for now and work on something else.Then it happened.windows 25H2 update was available and it updated when I went to restart my system. I didn't think much of it till I realized that Windows automatically booted. I thought that maybe the boot order got swapped so I checked and then I found that 2 OF MY GRUB INSTANCES WERE DELETEDWHATI looked this up and apparently windows does that every update or just in major updates, which is why some people don't advice dualbooting arch in the same ssd windows is installed in. I guess windows saw the grub install on my main drive and deleted it, and it also took my other grub install with it aswell.Now I know it is my fault because this is a very preventable situation, but when this happened I was still pretty upset about it. I wasn't sure what happened there and I still don't, and I can reinstall grub. But I felt demotivated at that point and was afraid this would happen again in the future even if I installed grub correctly. So with a heavy heart, I decided to just delete my Arch install to reclaim storage space on my second drive and fully make the switch once I go to my dream college which isn't really centered around microsoft's ecosystem.TL;DR: installed grub on the ssd where my windows is installed by accident, procrastinated the problem, which led to windows deleting all instances of grub from my systemLet this be a warning for you if you ever decide to try Arch for the first time or any distro in fact. BE CAREFUL WITH WHERE YOUR BOOTLOADER IS INSTALLED!Edit: Based on what I found on the internet, and whatu/boomboomsubbansaid, BIOS updates can reset your boot entries. I believe this was part of the 25H2 update for windows because it might have required a BIOS upadte before I could proceed with that windows version so it just updated my BIOS automatically. Afaik it shouldn't delete any of the grub files, just the boot entry.You can fix this by reinstalling grub through a live usb, or through booting in Super Grub 2 using a USB (shared byu/gazpitchy). If you want to avoid your grub boot entry from getting removed, the arch wiki andu/boomboomsubbansaid in another thread from 2 years ago that installing grub with the [--removable] flag might also help with allowing you to boot in case EFI settings get reset (especially after updates).Just be careful when updating your BIOS guys. And if it ever happens, rest assured that the fixes are pretty easy to do. For now, I will be putting off from dual booting linux and windows until I graduate high school and go to a college that doesn't rely on microsoft's ecosystem.
Xbox Elite Controller works via USB but not Bluetooth in mGBA (Arch Linux) Xbox Elite Controller works via USB but not Bluetooth in mGBA (Arch Linux)u/JamonAndaluz•7 days agoXbox Elite Controller works via USB but not Bluetooth in mGBA (Arch Linux)SUPPORTHi everyone,I'm trying to get my Xbox Elite Controller working via Bluetooth on Arch Linux. I followed the steps from the Arch Wiki Bluetooth page:https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/BluetoothSpecifically, I did the following:Installed the "bluez" packege (Bluetooth protokol stack)Installed "bluez-utils" (for bluetoothctl) and also "bluez-deprecated-tools"Checked that the "btusb" kernel module is loadedEnabled an started "bluetooth.service"After that, I installed "bluetui" and paired/connected the controller through it.when I run:cat /dev/input/js0I do get input events whenever I press buttons on the controller, so it seems to be working at a low level.However, the controller does not work in mGBA when connected via Bluetooth, What's confusing is that when I connect the controller via USB cable, mGBA detects an works with it just fine. in both cases, the controller appears under "/dev" with the same name, which make this even more puzzling.Does anyone have experience with this or an idea what might be causing it?I also couldn't find proper documentation for the "mgba-qt" pacman package that explains where or how mGBA reads input on Linux.Any help would be appreciated - thanks!
Screen artefacts when moving windows - Nvidia + Wayland Screen artefacts when moving windows - Nvidia + Waylandu/the_someguy•4 days agoScreen artefacts when moving windows - Nvidia + WaylandSUPPORTI’ve recently installed Arch, and have noticed frequent minor screen artefacts. Looks a little like screen tearing, but usually appears as thin lines (both horizontal and vertical) around the borders of where an overlaying app window was.Example apps:- Steam- DiscordI’ve tried disabling hardware acceleration on Discord, but this had no effect.There are a few other visual problems happening:- Some windows that were in the background or not visible change to the wrong resolution when opened, and don’t immediately go back. E.g Steam suddenly appears at a different resolution, although the window size the app is using does not change. Moving the window usually resolves this issue.- This one I’m struggling to measure, but YouTube on Chrome *feels* slightly choppy. I’m not sure how to measure this, other than at a guess the frame rate is lower than I’m expecting vs other devices.My setup:- Arch installed via the arch installer- Nvidia 4090- Wayland- KDE Plasma- Nvidia driver installed via nvidia-dkm pacman packageAny help appreciated!
Unable to pair with headphones Unable to pair with headphonesu/Savings-Shallot1771•7 days agoUnable to pair with headphonesSHAREHi everyone,I migrated to arch yesterday (previously) on debian unstable and quick hit a bump regarding bluetooth configuration.I have three devices: a keyboard (blitzwolf bw-kb1), a mouse (logitech g305 with a usb dongle) and a headset (Kuba Mali 2).The headset is the only device that uses bluetooth with version 6.I've read the wiki but the bluetooth troubleshoot section needs to be updated.Therfkillcommand shows that neither wireless or bluetootk are blocked.When I attempted to connect throught terminal with bluetoothctl I get the following error messagea2dp-sink profile connect failed; protocol not availableAnd the only thing I found to make it possivle to connect with the headset is:edit the/etc/bluetooth/main.confand uncomment the Experimental and KernelExperimental features and set totrue.Hope this helps someone :)P.S.: Don't forget to reboot
My experience with 340xx drivers (geforce 330m) My experience with 340xx drivers (geforce 330m)u/fudsa•17 days agoMy experience with 340xx drivers (geforce 330m)SHAREI tried arch for the first time thinking my gpu would work since the drivers were in the aur, but absolutely nothing was working. All it took was one parameter and it all started working.`pcie_aspm=off pcie_port_pm=off`You should try this boot parameter if there are display related problems
Что делать если Arch грузит ЦП под 100? Что делать если Arch грузит ЦП под 100?u/NumberPretend2990•14 days agoЧто делать если Arch грузит ЦП под 100?QUESTIONпроцессор ryzen 5 5500 только установил arch и не знаю что делать
Tried to install arch on virtualbox Tried to install arch on virtualboxu/Electronic-Low-8171•14 days agoTried to install arch on virtualboxSUPPORTI downloaded an iso from archlinux32 and booted into it using virtualbox, I went through the documentation then I typed into the command line that pacstrap command I saw on the wiki, after waiting for that installation to finish after about an hour waiting for it to finish, I got surprised with it saying something like errors, or that it failed to check the integrity I guess, I don't know how to see the above text in the terminal as tty, then used the up arrow key to type in the same pacstrap command, and it seemed like it started over the download 💀 I immediately hit Ctrl-C, man that download took ages to finish and then after this error, this is getting insane
I built Tabularis: a database client that exposes all your connections via MCP I built Tabularis: a database client that exposes all your connections via MCPu/debba_•14 days agoI built Tabularis: a database client that exposes all your connections via MCPSHAREHey folks 👋I’m working on Tabularis, a modern database client focused on clarity, speed, and developer experience.At its core, Tabularis lets you connect to multiple databases, explore schemas, run queries, and inspect data with a clean, distraction-free UI.One thing I’m particularly excited about is that Tabularis supports MCP (Model Context Protocol).What does this mean in practice?👉 Every database connection you configure in Tabularis is automatically exposed via MCP.This makes your databases accessible as structured context for MCP-compatible tools and agents, without extra glue code or manual exports.In other words:•	Your DB connections become first-class MCP resources•	You can reuse the same connections across tools and workflows•	Databases stop being isolated GUIs and start becoming part of a larger AI / automation ecosystemMy goal with Tabularis is to blur the line between:database client ↔ developer tools ↔ AI-assisted workflowsThe project is still evolving, and I’d love feedback from people interested in:•	databases & SQL•	MCP / LLM tooling•	developer experience & tooling designGitHub repo:https://github.com/debba/tabularisAUR:https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/tabularis-binIf this sounds interesting, feel free to check it out and share your thoughts 🙌
"reboot and select proper boot device" after the bootloader worked completey fine "reboot and select proper boot device" after the bootloader worked completey fineu/squishot•15 days ago"reboot and select proper boot device" after the bootloader worked completey fineSUPPORTIve had arch on my laptop for months now and it worked completely fine till today when i opened it and it doesn't show me boot options anymore and this text instead.Last thing i did on it was install libreoffice and didn't mess with any config files whatsoever I have no idea what went wrong.
Attempting a Raid0 setup, can anyone help me? Attempting a Raid0 setup, can anyone help me?u/-MORRICE-•15 days agoAttempting a Raid0 setup, can anyone help me?SUPPORTHey guys, I'm having trouble installing Arch. I've always used Arch Install, but recently I've been using my NVMe drives in RAID 0. I removed Windows from my PC in order to install arch Linux, I tried using the Arch Install script with the dadm to create the RAID array, but it wasn't listed... I restarted the PC, removed the RAID from the UEFI, and tried again, but still nothing worked. Can anyone help me?
What I am doing wrong in SUDO ?? What I am doing wrong in SUDO ??u/yakeinpoonia•23 days agoWhat I am doing wrong in SUDO ??SUPPORTSo i want to runpowerofffrom user named "yakein" without asking for password and after little searching here and there. I implemented solution as you can see in photo1.And to make sure that everything is correct, i runsudo -las you can see in photo2, it shows thepoweroffrule but still it asks for password. I even used full path instead of justpoweroffbut no luck.photo1photo2So what am i doing wrong here, why this isn't working ??
Archinstall failing due to PGP issues Archinstall failing due to PGP issuesu/New_Trust_4592•3 days agoArchinstall failing due to PGP issuesSUPPORTI’ve never had this happen to me in the past. When using archinstall (or anything in the ISO that uses pac-man), i get this error:GPGME error: No datafailed to synchronize all databases invalid or corrupted database pgp signature ))ive tried to use what i’ve found on google, for example:pacman-key —initgpg: agent_genkey failed: No such file or directorygpg: key generation failed: No such file or directoryi’ve verified the iso and re downloaded multiple times, it’s not fixed.EDIT > SOLVED:turns out the US mirrors were causing the issues. switched to UK and now it’s installing just fine
Problem with Razer Blackshark V2 X headphones Problem with Razer Blackshark V2 X headphonesu/Ill-Kale-2468•5 days agoProblem with Razer Blackshark V2 X headphonesQUESTIONWhen I connected them, they wouldn't emit any sound nor does the microphone work. While I had fixed the sound issue, I still don't know how can I get my mic to work... I am on Hyprland if that helps with anything at all.
Arch and cachy kernels Arch and cachy kernelsu/Kevinkad•14 days agoArch and cachy kernelsQUESTIONI’ll keep this brief:​I installed Arch Linux and then CachyOS. On Arch, I can’t play 4K videos because they stutter constantly, but on CachyOS, 4K playback is almost perfectly smooth. Why is there such a difference?​Also, if I install the CachyOS kernel and package sources on Arch, will the performance be identical to a native CachyOS install? Specifically, would 4K videos play smoothly just by switching the kernel, or is there more to it?
My main partition keeps going into read only mode My main partition keeps going into read only modeu/Routine-Movie-2039•9 days agoMy main partition keeps going into read only modeSUPPORTFor a while I was not able to reach the sddm login screen(I think it is because of my wifi card) so I kept shutting it down using the power button.  Then I logged in using the tty. But after a few minutes the partition goes into read only.any app that does a write operation closes.I use ASUS TUF  15Here is my journalctl output of that session.https://pastebin.com/U9wM3YqQ
USB Pass through in VM USB Pass through in VMu/trollblox_•5 days agoUSB Pass through in VMSUPPORT | SOLVEDHow do I connect my mouse directly to my VM? I am trying to change my mouse settings using Logitech G HUB on a Windows VM. The app isn't recognizing my mouse which I assume is because I need to connect it directly to the VM. How do I do this? I'm using VirtualBox and I don't see a setting for it in the USB section of the settings.
Enhancing the Vicinae Launcher: My new extensions for ProtonVPN and ultra-fast fd file searching. Enhancing the Vicinae Launcher: My new extensions for ProtonVPN and ultra-fast fd file searching.u/Mujtaba1i•5 days agoEnhancing the Vicinae Launcher: My new extensions for ProtonVPN and ultra-fast fd file searching.SHAREHey everyone,​I recently switched from Windows to Linux (currently CachyOS + KDE). I started using Vicinae (the Raycast-inspired launcher), but I found a few gaps in my workflow, so I decided to build my own extensions to solve them.​ProtonVPN Extension:I got tired of opening the GUI just to toggle my connection. This lets you toggle on/off and see your connection status directly from the launcher.​Repo:https://github.com/Mujtaba1i/vicinae-protonvpn-extension​fd-Search Engine:The built-in file search wasn't catching everything on my desktop, so I hooked up fd to handle the indexing. It's incredibly fast, supports thumbnails/icons, and caches to a temp file so it doesn't eat your CPU.​Repo:https://github.com/Mujtaba1i/fd-Search-vicinae-extension​I figured other Vicinae users might find them useful too. ​I've submitted a PR to the official store, but you can grab them from my GitHub in the meantime.
Different software manger for system and userland apps Different software manger for system and userland appsu/Novel_Mango3113•3 days agoDifferent software manger for system and userland appsDISCUSSIONHi Arch users, I saw somewhere that on Arch some people use pacman for system updates and then some other package manager like flatpak or brew for rest user apps. I can see both pros and cons. While keeping user software separate sounds good, sometimes it's not clear distinction and it might result in duplicate dependencies. Also, it makes updates a two step process than just a simple pacman command. But then, this is true with AUR also as not everything is in main repo. So, wanted to get community opinion on what does Arch users thinks about this approach.
BTRFs kinda shitty ? BTRFs kinda shitty ?u/Ok-Cash-7244•3 days agoBTRFs kinda shitty ?DISCUSSIONKent O says it best with "a file system should not write bad data" and I never caught what he was saying. But then I had a btrfs snapshot fucking overwrite my file system with empty space after my super block got clipped .I could never see a situation where I experiment with drivers and throwing hexadecimal codes at anything I can find in hwmon - make a snapshot before just in case - but the file system is what assfucks me (xrt userspace is almost there btw)I'm genuinely curious (not tryna be facetious) what could the actual utility or reasoning be for having superblock ids swap as a fallback whilst also having the entire filesystem hinge on that subvolume.
Bumpbuddy: New dashboard and features Bumpbuddy: New dashboard and featuresu/Antiz1996•28 days agoBumpbuddy: New dashboard and featuresNOTEWORTHYhttps://lists.archlinux.org/archives/list/arch-dev-public@lists.archlinux.org/thread/MPIBZ7F65HAKDZQTRRQ2QXGXG5YUW6OY/Full post in comments.TL;DR:- Bumpbuddy got a fair amount of new features & improvements, including a new public dashboard allowing anyone to visualize and search through the state of monitored packages:https://bumpbuddy.archlinux.org/- Work on integration with other tools and resources (such as devtools/pkgctl and archweb), in line with our future goals for Bumpbuddy, has started.
Turning a laptop into an overly complicated radio Turning a laptop into an overly complicated radiou/AsAsin18•11 days agoTurning a laptop into an overly complicated radioQUESTIONI've got this 16 year old laptop and an RTL-SDR dongle. I've finished partitioning, formatting and mounting the only disk it has. I've gotten down to essential packages, but what essential packages do i install? Worth mentioning I didn't install internet drivers because it's not gonna be using internet though let me know if i need those.
Is LVM right for me? Is LVM right for me?u/bb9345•15 days agoIs LVM right for me?QUESTIONI'm pretty much brand new to Arch, so this might be a pretty obvious answer to those more knowledgeable than myself. I'm running the latest stable arch g14 build for my Asus TUF A15. I got it because my old laptop got a short circuit in its graphics chip, but notably the SSD was still fine. Now I've got two 512 GB hard drives in my case, and I'm trying to combine them into one 1TB disk.I'm already leaning towards setting up LVM for this, but I wanted to know if people who know the OS better than me would caution against that, in case there was a method of combining hard drives that put me at less of a risk of data loss in the event that something goes wrong with one of them. Thanks in advance, hopefully!EDIT for clarity: I want to use the remaining space on the SSD containing /root to expand /home, so it can be larger than 512 GB since I don't believe there's any reason for /root to need anywhere close to all that space. Is this a misguided assumption? If so, I'd probably be better off abandoning that idea and keeping the two drives separate.EDIT 2: What I ended up doing is that my boot, swap  and root are on one SSD, taking up most of it but leaving about 10% space unallocated for safety, and then the other has my home partition, also leaving about 10% free. I tried getting btrfs to behave with rEFInd, but in the end I gave up and left root and home as ext4. Now I'm just waiting on a ram stick to arrive to complete my laptop upgrade and hope that reformatting my initramfs to include a second stick will be a simple procedure.
How do I cap PipeWire's maximum volume to 100%? How do I cap PipeWire's maximum volume to 100%?u/ircy2012•18 days agoHow do I cap PipeWire's maximum volume to 100%?SUPPORT | SOLVEDHi.Been setting up Arch for weeks now. Got many things working. Wrote some scripts myself. You know, I had fun and learned things about Linux.But this one has been really getting under my skin so I'm asking for some help.I have an installation with pipewire wireplumber pipewire-pulse pipewire-alsa pipewire-jack (tbh idk if the last one is needed for anything I will ever use so maybe i'm gonna remove it)Now my problem is as follows: I can set the output volume over 100%.pavucontrol allows me to raise the volume up to 153%.pulsemixer allows me to raise it to 150%pactl allows me to raise it as much as I want.So does wiremix....I don't want this. While I believe that this can have it's uses I personally think that this is at best an useless thing to have for personal desktop use and at worst a harmful thing to have for personal desktop use. I want the maximum volume to be 100% with no option for software amplification over that.I realized that I can set caps in various widgets and commands. wpctl has the -l flag. But that is not what I'm looking for as I don't want to do that manually for each program that could conceivable change the volume. Because tomorrow I could get a new one and that one is once again gonna be able to set the volume dangerously high.I would like to set the audio daemon to tell programs that "The maximum value is 1.0 and I won't accept anything beyond that." And to actually not accept anything over that.I would assume that something like this would be an easy thing to configure, but it's been frustratingly elusive so far.So first question: Is what I want even possible or was there some design choice where the developers decided that there is no upper cap to how much software amplification can be applied?Second question: How do I do it?Thanks
If the underline is blinking, it's still working right? If the underline is blinking, it's still working right?u/S1LV3Rxyz•14 days agoIf the underline is blinking, it's still working right?SUPPORTBeen trying to install Davinci Resolve from AUR. It's been crashing my PC when I tried to install it on KDE so now I tried to install it from different tty.At the same moment, when it was crashing my arch, now instead of wall of passing text it's just the underline blinking. It's been like that for about 15 minutes. Pls help. Sorry if I'm being a little chaoic.Stuck at:../../../../qtwebengine-5.15.19-1ts/src/3rdparty/chromium/third_party/blink/renderer/platform/wtf/text/string_operators.h:118:60: note: remove the '<>'_
trying to repair boot windows trying to repair boot windowsu/PlsHelp2211•14 days agotrying to repair boot windowsQUESTIONas i was using archinstall on dual boot with windows 11 i accidentaly formated windows boot partition and i can boot it pls help
[aur] global flags for building packages [aur] global flags for building packagesu/rhoki-bg•14 days ago[aur] global flags for building packagesQUESTIONHello, I've been unhappy with build times of some packages. To combat this, I edit PKGBUILDs manually. I do:set -j8 flags for make and cmakeremove things like "i686-w64-mingw32" from _architecturesremove static libs build instructions.Are there ways to set those things as defaults?
CLIP  STUDIO PAINT FOR ARCH KDE CLIP  STUDIO PAINT FOR ARCH KDEu/fuuf_•3 days agoCLIP  STUDIO PAINT FOR ARCH KDESUPPORTIs anyone able to use Clip Studio Paint on Arch with KDE? I've tried several tutorials but it never works; sometimes it doesn't run the files, then I try other methods and it can't find the program. If possible, is there a way to use it without the original key? I built a completely customized system a few years ago, but I never managed to get CSP to work correctly, including the item shop. Since I draw a lot, this made me leave Linux several times and return to Windows 10 just because of it. But nowadays I find Windows 10 unbearable to use, and I want to go back to my beloved Linux, but this prevents me, and installing duallboth systems isn't an option.
Kernel selection at boot Kernel selection at bootu/shooter_419•15 days agoKernel selection at bootSUPPORT | SOLVEDSo I've been using Linux Mint daily for about 3.5 years now and I decided it was time to try Arch. I got everything installed and configured the way I want it. Once I got yay figured out it wasn't nearly as bad as I thought it would be even with me being a noob. But I am left with one question I can't seem to find an answer to. I installed the linux kernel and the lts kernel as was suggested to me. At boot it asks me to select one. I thing the current timeout is 3 seconds. Is there a file somewhere that will allow me to change that timeout?Edit: Solved. The menu timeout is set in  /boot/loader/loader.conf
Play Minecraft multiplayer in LAN mode. Play Minecraft multiplayer in LAN mode.u/porpetenha1•20 days agoPlay Minecraft multiplayer in LAN mode.QUESTIONI want to play Minecraft with a friend, but we're not on the same network. When I used Windows, I used programs like Ramachi or Radimin. What alternatives would I have for Linux to play LAN games?
non-smooth scrolling in applications non-smooth scrolling in applicationsu/ZXPOLAND•15 days agonon-smooth scrolling in applicationsQUESTIONI have an rx9070 graphics card. Scrolling on Steam feels like it's at 60Hz (monitor 165). Disabling hardware acceleration did not help. It's the same in Discord, only in it this problem was solved after the hardware acceleration was turned off. I tried mesa-git, but it didn't help. How do I solve this?
How to sandbox Firefox's new profiles with Firejail? How to sandbox Firefox's new profiles with Firejail?u/RequestableSubBot•4 days agoHow to sandbox Firefox's new profiles with Firejail?QUESTIONI'm setting up Firefox from scratch on a new Arch Linux install. I'm looking into using Firejail to create sandboxed profiles for different activities (e.g. One for general browsing, one for work, one for banking, etc.), with each FF profile having its own seperate FJ configuration. Ideally I would want each profile to have its own seperate configuration location on disk, and to be unable to access one another.I'm not sure how to make it work with the new Firefox profile system, or if it's even possible. There seem to be ways to do it with the old profile system but with the new system I don't think you can even open a profile from terminal, so I just don't know. I don't want to set it all up in the old system if it's going to get deprecated in the future.I honestly don't know enough about how Firejail works (I've read the manpages but I'm still not certain) and I don't want to set it up incorrectly as a result, so I'm wondering if anyone else has managed this, or could point me in the right direction?
Audio Bluetooth delay in games! Audio Bluetooth delay in games!u/ThisAir2405•7 days agoAudio Bluetooth delay in games!SUPPORTI'm new to Linux and I'm using Arch (feel free to criticize me). I started using Omarchy but I didn't like the fact that Omarchy updates bring changes to window animations and other things that don't appeal to me, so I decided to do a clean install of Arch + Hyprland. I based my configuration on some things from Omarchy, but I'm having a problem that I can't find a solution for regarding Bluetooth audio latency in games.I searched for articles/tutorials and created the following files:pipewire-pulse.conf  context.modules = [     { name = libpipewire-module-protocol-pulse         args = {             pulse.min.req = 16/48000             pulse.min.quantum = 16/48000         }     } ]  pulse.properties = {     server.address = [ "unix:native" ]      pulse.min.req = 16/48000     pulse.default.req = 256/48000      pulse.min.quantum = 16/48000     pulse.default.frag = 256/48000      pulse.default.tlength = 2048/48000     pulse.idle.timeout = 0 }Andpipewire.conf  context.properties = {     default.clock.rate = 48000     default.clock.allowed-rates = [ 48000 ]      default.clock.min-quantum = 16     default.clock.max-quantum = 128      default.clock.quantum-floor = 16     default.clock.quantum-limit = 128      clock.power-of-two-quantum = true }  context.spa-libs = {     audio.convert.* = audioconvert/libspa-audioconvert     support.*       = support/libspa-support }  context.modules = [     { name = libpipewire-module-rt         args = { nice.level = -11 }         flags = [ ifexists nofail ]     }      { name = libpipewire-module-protocol-native }     { name = libpipewire-module-client-node }     { name = libpipewire-module-adapter }     { name = libpipewire-module-metadata } ]When running a game on Steam and opening pw-top, the "QUANT" in the game is set to 240 and the delay is noticeable. I know the delay will never be 0, but in Omarchy it was practically imperceptible; I played MMOs, Dota, and CS and didn't experience the delay I'm currently having.Can anyone help me with this? If you know what configuration Omarchy uses and could tell me what to do on my current installation, I just want to have a good gaming experience with Bluetooth audio.
How to force kde to manage my notifications. How to force kde to manage my notifications.u/PraddyumnYadav•15 days agoHow to force kde to manage my notifications.SUPPORTHi Everybody Currently I am on Arch with ...KDE Plasma (Primary Desktop)HyprlandCOSMIC DesktopI use swaync as a notifiaction daemon in hyprland because ChatGPT said i can't use the kde notification daemon on hyprland but due to that KDE Plasma also uses Swaync as its notification daemon but i don't want that I want kde to manage notifications when i am in kde session and then swaync in hyprland.I tried pkill swaync but that doesn't do anything. I also tried to kill swaync then restart plasmashell but that also did not do anything.One more thing is that this issue persists even if I turn on my computer then select plasma on login manager without ever opening hyprland.
I should have started with Arch LTS I should have started with Arch LTSu/KZstu•15 days agoI should have started with Arch LTSDISCUSSIONHaven't use my Arch linux laptop in like 2 months, opened it and it's broken again and won't boot and I cbf fixing it. I wish I knew about LTS when I started cuz rolling release just seems terrible for anyone who wants to use their computer. What are even the pros of using rolling release? Why isn't LTS more popular?
Failing to boot from external SSD Failing to boot from external SSDu/Dantcho•15 days agoFailing to boot from external SSDSUPPORTI'm in the process of switching to Linux for my daily driver OS. I've been trying out Arch from an external SSD for a month or so and have been having this issue with it not booting properly sometimes.I think what's causing it is whenever I plug/unplug a USB device into my laptop, the next time it doesn't boot and I need to hold the power button to shut it off. After that it works just fine. This also happens if I plug the external SSD into a different USB port.I'm guessing it might be getting confused with the USBs changing while it's turned off and failing because of that.PS: I used archinstall and selected the Hyprland profile.Also I'm not yet ready to completly switch to Linux and don't have another internal storage slot in my laptop to utilize, so that's why I'm using an extarnal SSD that plugs via USB.I've tried to get a short video of the errors I get whenever it fails to boot:Video
My experience as a long term Windows user changing to Arch and Window managers My experience as a long term Windows user changing to Arch and Window managersu/Diojosan•12 days agoMy experience as a long term Windows user changing to Arch and Window managersFLUFFAs someone who has spent most of my life behind a computer, I got used to my operating system to the point where I stopped questioning it. I didn’t look for better options. I simply adapted.Like many developers, I once saw macOS as the “ideal” setup: powerful, polished, and expensive. Always interesting, but always out of reach.Everything changed when I realized the best development environment I’ve ever used is free, open source, and entirely under my control.But that kind of simplicity, the kind that removes abstractions instead of adding them, comes with something many developers are not comfortable with: **responsibility**.There’s a phrase I really like: _“standing on the shoulders of giants.”_ It means that progress is built on the knowledge of those who came before us, allowing us to see further. As a software developer, I’m constantly chasing the work of better engineers, looking for small pieces of knowledge that can move me one step forward.So far, the biggest “small step” I’ve taken was giving Linux the attention it deserved.---Growing Up With WindowsI started using computers when I was eight. A relative had a machine with dial‑up internet, and every time we visited, all I could think about was using it. From that early experience to the PC I built with my own money years later, and every computer in between, I always used Windows. I never stopped to ask _why_.When you grow up clicking buttons and feeling uncomfortable when a terminal window appears, tasks like mounting disks, managing services, dealing with permissions, or editing configuration files feel intimidating.So the idea of using an operating system that boots directly into a terminal, with no GUI unless you install one yourself, no audio drivers unless you install one yourself, is terrifying for many people.---Arch Linux’s PhilosophyArch has a philosophy that differs from most mainstream distributions. The documentation describes it as a pragmatic distribution rather than an ideological one, where _“evidence‑based technical analysis and debate are what matter, not politics or popular opinion.”_Arch is user‑centric, not user‑friendly. And there’s a big difference.It’s designed to meet the needs of its contributors, not to attract the largest number of users. The documentation states clearly:> “It is targeted at the proficient GNU/Linux user, or anyone with a do‑it‑yourself attitude who is willing to read the documentation and solve their own problems.”---One of the reasons I decided to stick with Arch instead of any other distro is simple:Once you understand Arch, you don’t need another operating system, probably ever.Both my personal computer and my home server run Arch smoothly. The system gives you the ability to build a custom environment by choosing from thousands of high‑quality packages in the official repositories.And then there’s the AUR, the Arch User Repository.When I started using Arch, I didn’t fully understand its power. And then I realized:  the AUR offers almost everything.With tools like `yay`, you can install packages maintained by the community, often faster and more up‑to‑date than official software. Many official packages actually started as AUR packages.If you're passionate about open source, the AUR is one of the best examples of what a community can build: a repository created by Arch users, for Arch users. And that's honestly one of the coolest things I’ve seen in the Linux community.Arch Linux scares people not because it’s complicated (maybe a little bit), but the freedom and control come with a price, are you willing to pay?
What's a good system monitoring and temp monitoring tool for desktop use? What's a good system monitoring and temp monitoring tool for desktop use?u/UniversityNervous545•5 days agoWhat's a good system monitoring and temp monitoring tool for desktop use?SUPPORTI just installed arch yesterday and set it up(lots of struggling but I got right with no problem), I know about MangoHud that is used for gaming instead of MSI afterburner. But I used to use hwinfo while on desktop.I'm using KDE Plasma with Weyland, so is there any linux alternative to hwinfo? I found something called BTOP++ but im looking for something more minimal, that I can configure to take a corner of the screen like a widget or something.It's making me twitchy not seeing my temps in case something happens
my device list in iwctl show nothing my device list in iwctl show nothingu/Aimzi996-_-•15 days agomy device list in iwctl show nothingSUPPORThi im new to linux and i wanted to install arch but when i want to setup wifi , the device list in iwctl show nothing help pls (i have asus vivobook with amd cpu and gpu)
How to find where an icon comes from? How to find where an icon comes from?u/stefantigro•15 days agoHow to find where an icon comes from?SUPPORTHey all! I have a powermenu script, not author, author is mentioned in the script, that I've adapted a bit for my needs, but I have a problem that I do not know where the icons (fonts) are from:https://github.com/Michaelpalacce/.dotfiles/blob/9b1816cfe6e1f07b2518666dab0f7826c276a9e2/rofi/.config/rofi/scripts/powermenu.sh#L13-L20This menu works fine on my own desktop, but for whatever reason it doesn't work on my laptop...My installed fonts are:https://github.com/Michaelpalacce/.dotfiles/blob/9b1816cfe6e1f07b2518666dab0f7826c276a9e2/setup/arch/10-gui/50-fonts.shso it doesn't seem like it's one of them.Does anyone have a method of searching for these?Edit:.dotfiles git:master* ❯ yay --noconfirm -S --needed ttf-font-awesome \   ttf-jetbrains-mono-nerd \   ttf-nerd-fonts-symbols \   ttf-nerd-fonts-symbols-mono \   ttf-font-icons \   noto-fonts \   noto-fonts-cjk \   noto-fonts-emoji \   ttf-font-awesome-4   -> ttf-font-icons-1.1-3 is up to date -- skipping  -> ttf-font-awesome-4-4.7.0-7 is up to date -- skipping Sync Explicit (7): ttf-jetbrains-mono-nerd-3.4.0-2, ttf-nerd-fonts-symbols-3.4.0-1, ttf-nerd-fonts-symbols-mono-3.4.0-1, noto-fonts-1:2026.01.01-1, noto-fonts-cjk-20240730-1, noto-fonts-emoji-1:2.051-1, woff2-font-awesome-7.1.0-1 Place your right index finger on the fingerprint reader Failed to match fingerprint Place your right index finger on the fingerprint reader warning: noto-fonts-1:2026.01.01-1 is up to date -- skipping warning: noto-fonts-cjk-20240730-1 is up to date -- skipping warning: noto-fonts-emoji-1:2.051-1 is up to date -- skipping warning: woff2-font-awesome-7.1.0-1 is up to date -- skipping warning: ttf-jetbrains-mono-nerd-3.4.0-2 is up to date -- skipping warning: ttf-nerd-fonts-symbols-3.4.0-1 is up to date -- skipping warning: ttf-nerd-fonts-symbols-mono-3.4.0-1 is up to date -- skipping  there is nothing to doThey are all present.Also, yes.. I've restarted many times since installing
Siemens NX Siemens NXu/burunkanamasi•11 days agoSiemens NXQUESTIONI've just recently switched to Arch from Windows. I need Siemens NX 11.0 (and likely other engineering software in the future) for my classes. Is there any way to run it other than dual-booting or using a Windows VM?
Pipetron - a "bandage" fix for a PipeWire and Electron issue Pipetron - a "bandage" fix for a PipeWire and Electron issueu/Splqshes•23 days agoPipetron - a "bandage" fix for a PipeWire and Electron issueSHAREHello! I just wanted to share an opensource project that I've recently worked on.My motivation for building this project in the first place was to fix the annoying problem with Electron apps' audio streams within pavucontrol or other audio control apps. All electron apps would always show up as "Chromium" with the chromium icon despite all being different apps. Another issue was that WirePlumber also couldn't differentiate the different electron apps, and always resets all electron apps to the same volume setting. If you ever found these issues also annoying, this project might be for you!This program essentially creates replicated audio streams with correct icons and names for the app. And it also fixes the WirePlumber issue. You can find a more indepth explanation in the repo.This project is pretty new, so any feedback, issues or PRs are open and would be greatly appreciated! Currently only tested on Arch and also released in theAUR.Codeberg:https://codeberg.org/ponleou/pipetronGitHub (mirror):https://github.com/ponleou/pipetron
Is there a way to use phone as speakers? Is there a way to use phone as speakers?u/danyuri86•5 days agoIs there a way to use phone as speakers?QUESTIONSo I'm wondering if I could use my pixel 9 as speakers for my system temporarily? This is probably TMI, but my close family has gone on holiday to Malta and I'm at their place cat-stting. Been getting bored so I decided didn't want be without PC so I hauled it over, but I stupid forgot to bring headphones.Wondering if I can use my pixel 9 as speakers for the system? Running arch linux and plasma KDE. Thanks for any advice.
Brightness keys and brightness control not working on Arch Linux setup on Lenovo Loq Brightness keys and brightness control not working on Arch Linux setup on Lenovo Loqu/axlrose-•16 days agoBrightness keys and brightness control not working on Arch Linux setup on Lenovo LoqSUPPORThi everyone,My brightness control isn't working on my setup and could use some help.The problem is that my brightness function keys don't work and brightness doesn't change via brightnessctl or /sys/class/backlight. The value under brightness changes but screen backlight doesn't change.Also under /sys/class/backlight/  ideapad shows up and this isn't mentioned in the archwiki.My GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="loglevel=3 quiet acpi_backlight=vendor" is this under /etc/default/grub.Also my laptop is lenovo loq with amd cpu and nvidia rtx 4060 running xorg and i3
FSR4 crahes when opening Menus FSR4 crahes when opening Menusu/theleninlover•6 days agoFSR4 crahes when opening MenusSUPPORTI have a problem with fsr4 on my RX 7800xt (enabled with PROTON_FSR4_RDNA3_UPGRADE=1). It works fine in Arc Raiders but in Ark survival ascended it crashes when opening the inventory. In Monster Hunter Wilds it also crashes when opening some menus. I already tried installing the the git version of mesa but that didnt fix it. Is this a known problem and/or is there a fix?
Can we talk about "Vibe Archers"? Can we talk about "Vibe Archers"?u/Excellent_Double_726•3 days agoCan we talk about "Vibe Archers"?DISCUSSIONTL;DR:Vibe Archers want the Arch aesthetic without the knowledge. They're vibing with Arch, not using it.I need to introduce a term:Vibe Archers.These are people who want to vibe with Arch without actually learning it. Two types:Type 1:Use AI (ChatGPT/Claude) to install Arch instead of reading the wiki. Copy-paste commands, no understanding.Type 2:"Can you install it for me?" (What just happened to me)A friend recently asked me to install Arch + Hyprland with a full preconfigured setup. I did it because I'm running the same setup and they're my friend. But now they have a riced Hyprland system and don't know how any of it works. They're just riding the vibe.The whole point of Arch is the learning process. The wiki exists for a reason. "I use Arch btw" used to mean you actually understood your system. Now we have people with riced setups who don't know what a bootloader is.I'm not gatekeeping - everyone starts somewhere. But there's something different between struggling through the installation yourself versus getting handed a working system.Has anyone else noticed this? Am I being too harsh?
Need help with dual monitors on hybrid graphics. Need help with dual monitors on hybrid graphics.u/dakimode03•4 days agoNeed help with dual monitors on hybrid graphics.SUPPORTNeed help with dual monitors on hybrid graphics.r/arch•4 days agoNeed help with dual monitors on hybrid graphics.Hello, I am on arch(obviously) kde plasma wayland(though i'm willing to switch to x11 if necessary). I think it's important to say that i started with arch as my first distro (still kinda begginer) and the remains of chatgpts help is still probably somewhere on my system although i'm trying to get myself to fix these things by actually understanding my system and RTFM(that is to say i may have missed some important things in the wiki entries especially on this topic).My pc specs are: some victus laptop with hybrid graphics: the discrete card is the nvidia 3050 (4gb vram)(using newest nvidia dkms drivers and lts kernel) and the cpu is the amd ryzen 5 5600H with its integrated graphics. AFAIK that's most of the important stuff.My main gpu is the integrated one where it sends the calculations or whatever to my nvidia gpu.This works fine with my games but not with my monitor. Also if i understand this correctly my nvidia gpu points to the hdmi port but not my laptop screen and also AFAIK that is the problem with my setup.What i actually want is to make both my laptop screen and my external monitor(HDMI) work at the same time(preferably the nvidia gpu is not active always (like laptop screen is amd and external monitor nvidia but not necessary)) and is this normal behaviour to not work.Can someone please help me with this or atleast point me to some resources to help me out? thanks in advance.3upvotes·2comments
DE/WM that has tiling like hyprland and niri DE/WM that has tiling like hyprland and niriu/KILLER_OF_HADEZ•16 days agoDE/WM that has tiling like hyprland and niriQUESTIONI want the tiling of hyprland but the scrollability and workspaces of niri.
A Beginner Interested in Breaking stuff A Beginner Interested in Breaking stuffu/IHaveRest•14 days agoA Beginner Interested in Breaking stuffQUESTIONHello!I recently switched to linux from being a life long windows user about 5 months ago. I currently use Bazzite as my main desktop environment for daily use.But now after learning a bit more, feeling a lot more comfortable with Linux, I want to grow more in my understanding, mess around with stuff and get a better understanding on things like building from source code, understanding more deeply how to contain packages, manage things without causing dependency hell, and just overwall want to mess around on my other unused computer that I am not afraid to break stuff on.I am asking here on Arch because I know you guys are atleast considered one of the best for this, but I would like suggestions on if there are other options or better options for me to start with for getting my hands dirty. I very much like Fedora, I have heard good things about Linux mint, and also Arch is very appealing to me as well. I am just unsure what is a good STARTING PLACE for someone like me in experimenting and learning more about technical things relating to linux.I would love to hear from everybody and what you guys think would be a good starting point for me. Thank you in advance.
Pulseaudio errors causing Spotify and Youtube Player to stop working Pulseaudio errors causing Spotify and Youtube Player to stop workingu/kuhhlboy•16 days agoPulseaudio errors causing Spotify and Youtube Player to stop workingSUPPORT | SOLVEDHello, recently I had problems with different online media players as Youtube or Spotify. On this reddit I found a post about the same problem and the solution was to restart pulseaudio (status of pulseaudio had the following errors:Jan 28 17:11:53 jakob pulseaudio[1027]: Failed to open connection to session manager:None of the authentication protocols specified are supportedJan 28 17:11:53 jakob pulseaudio[1027]: Failed to load module "module-x11-xsmp" (argument: "display=:1 xauthority=/run/user/1000/xauth_csPafF session_manager=local/jakob:@/tmp/.ICE-unix/1049,unix/jakob:/tmp/.ICE-unix/1049"): initialization failed.)I restarted it and it worked fine.Now after starting my PC a day later, same issue appeared and was fixed as easily as before, just by restarting pulseaudio. As that werent enough, now, the same issue seems to appear a few minutes after fixing it after booting. Now, the weird thing is, that the status of pulseaudio seems perfectly fine, but restarting fixes it, but again, just for a moment.
Black screen during install Black screen during installu/Altaryan•5 days agoBlack screen during installQUESTIONSo I've decided to install Arch on my laptop with a windows double boot, to see how it goes for daily use. I've done all preparation for that (free space, shrink partition, disable hibernate, etc.).Now I'm booting (USB made with Rufus) the installer. And after pressing ArchInstallMedium I get a black screen then it reboots after some time.I've tried to add nomodeset and systemd.unit=multi-user.target as. Those are the common solutions I've seen online. But I still have a black screen.The only solution I've found is to use systemd.unit=rescue.target, and then the text displays normally but I don't know if I should even try to install from there.Any other ideas that might work ?Edit : doesn't work anymore with rescue target for whatever reason.Edit : fixed after reading a comment somewhere. Using an older iso (early 2024) did the trick. Pacman - Sy archlinux-keyring  used just after setting up DHCP so that's fine.
How to remove application icon from GNOME headerbar? How to remove application icon from GNOME headerbar?u/Not_Sergo3682•5 days agoHow to remove application icon from GNOME headerbar?SUPPORT | SOLVEDHow to remove application icon from GNOME headerbar?r/gnome•5 days agoHow to remove application icon from GNOME headerbar?All apps showing application icon at the left corner on headerbar in my system, so I've tried to remove it by editing ~/.config/gtk-3.0 and ~/.config/gtk-4.0 config file called window_decorations.css (because I don't have any customization options in tweaks or regular settings).So I did this(and restart session):headerbar .headerbar-button,headerbar .headerbar-button:before {display: none !important;}And this does nothing.Does any one know how to customize headerbar, because as far as I know in ootb gnome de adwaita theme application icons is hidden4upvotes·7comments
iwlwifi warning on boot iwlwifi warning on bootu/weblerzon•16 days agoiwlwifi warning on bootSUPPORTRecently I've switched from NetworkManager to iwd as my wireless network manager. But now, always when I boot, it is displayed on my tty the following:iwlwifi: Not valid error log pointer <hex> for RT uCodeIs it just an harmless warning? Because I can use my wi-fi with no issues.
Very Specific Guide: Sharing a keyboard and mouse between a windows machine and an arch linux machine running hyprland Very Specific Guide: Sharing a keyboard and mouse between a windows machine and an arch linux machine running hyprlandu/worldexample•21 days agoVery Specific Guide: Sharing a keyboard and mouse between a windows machine and an arch linux machine running hyprlandSHAREHey guys, so I've been using Windows for pretty much forever and decided to switch over to Linux recently, and just decided to choose CachyOS with Hyprland as the desktop environment. Although I am using CachyOS, from what I understand, the issues I faced and the solution I found should work on any normal Arch install as well (?), so I decided to post this guide here, instead of the CachyOS subreddit.Also, I will preface everything by saying that I literally just started using Linux 3 days ago, where I used Linux Mint for two days and then switched to CachyOS today, so please correct me if I did something wrong. I am always looking for ways to learn more and improve my knowledge in any way.My old setup was two Windows laptops, and running the application "Mouse Without Borders" on both laptops to allow the use of one set of wireless mouse and keyboard to control both laptops.After switching, I found myself stuck since, for some reason, all the applications with similar functionality to mouse without borders (input leap, synergy, deskflow, barrier, lan mouse) just didn't seem to work, or didn't offer clipboard support. All the available alternatives work very well, but due to some issues, none of them seem to work on the specific combination of using Hyprland on Arch.After a bit too much time spent researching and just messing around with linux I finally figured out the winning combination: Using deskflow on Windows as the host for the mouse and keyboard, and using "waynergy" as the client on Linux.Although I got it working, it took me practically a whole day's worth of research and messing around, since I am just a beginner at this stuff, and the available documentation was pretty hard to understand. So I thought I would write this guide if someone else found themselves in this very specific situation!1: Getting Deskflow set up on Windows (The easy part)Getting deskflow set up is easy; you just need to download and install deskflow-1.25.0-win-x64.msi from Deskflow's GitHub repository (https://github.com/deskflow/deskflow/releases/tag/v1.25.0)After it has been installed, go to Edit -> Preferences -> and uncheck "Requires client certificates" and save (For some reason it doesn't work with it checked).Then go back to the main screen, and click on the option saying "Make this computer the server", and start the server!2: Getting waynergy set up on Linux (The hard part)First, open up a terminal and download waynergy using:```paru waynergy```I also installed some packages along the way. I'm gonna be honest, it was so long ago that I forgot where I got the idea to install them, or if they were even important, but I'm gonna put them here so someone smarter than me can hopefully correct me:```sudo pacman -S wl-clipboard libxkbcommon```If you actually know what you are doing, unlike me, please let me know if I just installed them for no reason lol.Next, we will set up the config for waynergy:```mkdir -p ~/.config/waynergynano ~/.config/waynergy/config.ini```Put this in the config:```host = <Look at deskflow running on your Windows PC. There should be an IP given under "Suggested IP", use that>port = <Default port is 24800 unless you changed it in deskflow>name = <Your Linux PC's name>width = <Your Linux PC's monitor's width>height = <Your Linux PC's monitor's height>backend = wlrsyn_raw_key_codes = truerestart_on_fatal = truewl_keyboard_map = true[tls]enable = truetofu = true[log]level = 6mode = apath = /tmp/waynergy.log[idle-inhibit]method = keykeyname = HYPR[raw-keymap]```Next, we will connect the two PCs. Make sure that the server is running in Deskflow, and open up a separate terminal instance on your linux pc. In this terminal type in:```waynergy```It should say a bunch of stuff, might throw a few errors, but if you give it a second, it'll reconnect, and the two PCs should be connected! Now you should be able to move your mouse between the two PCs.Next, we will perform key mapping to make your keyboard work as well. Don't touch the terminal window where waynergy is running, and in the second terminal window, type in using the keyboard of your Linux PC:```waynergy-mapper -r```This will put you in mapping mode, and your terminal will say:Printing output to stdoutTo start, click the input windowShortcuts inhibitedStarting keymappingTo skip, left clickTo exit and print, right-clickTo undo, middle click'''Now just follow the instructions! Move your mouse (the one that is shared between the two PCs) over to the terminal, and press the left mouse button on the input window. It'll say something like:'''Key 9 (name: ESC) (syms: Escape )?'''Press the Esc key on your shared keyboard. Now just continue pressing buttons as it prompts you to press them! If you mess up, press the middle mouse button to undo. If you want to cancel and rethink installing linux press the right mouse button. If a button appears that you don't have, you can skip it using the left mouse button. There are like 600 inputs it takes; most of them will end up being skipped for you.After you go through every button, it'll exit and spit out something like this:[raw-keymap]1 = 92 = 103 = 114 = 12...Just copy the whole thing and paste it in the same section in the config where it says "[raw-keymap]". Then just save, restart waynergy by quitting it from the terminal and restarting it the same way you started it, and you're done! It should be ready to go!You can also add it in the hyprland config file to make it start up with hyprland by putting this under the Autostart section in the config, along with all the other autostart programs:```exec-once = waynergy```By the way, if you set up DeskFlow and Waynergy to start on startup on your Windows and Linux machines, and use hyprlock for your lockscreen, then your mouse and keyboard will automatically connect when you start up your laptops!If it doesn't work for you, or you have any questions, I am probably the worst person to ask. Like I said in the beginning, 3 days of experience. Trust me, you don't want to ask me for help.
Dolphin File Manager reporting my other NVME SSD as only having 7GiB free, despite being a ~700GB volume with around 230GB free Dolphin File Manager reporting my other NVME SSD as only having 7GiB free, despite being a ~700GB volume with around 230GB freeu/Secure_Bison936•5 days agoDolphin File Manager reporting my other NVME SSD as only having 7GiB free, despite being a ~700GB volume with around 230GB freeSUPPORTEDIT: there is a typo in the title, this post concerns the 1TB NVME SSD pre-installed with my laptop, containing the root partition.I'm running an Arch Linux (KDE Plasma)/Windows 11 dual-boot setup on an MSI Katana 15 B12V laptop. The laptop comes with a 1TB NVME SSD, and I recently installed an additional 4TB NVME SSD myself.Recently, Dolphin File Manager has started reporting that the root partition on my 1TB SSD is only a 7GiB volume, despite the fact that the total size of the partition is 732GiB, around 214GiB of which is available to use. I am having no actual problems writing files to the root partition, and other programs/commands (namely Steam andarchey3) report the correct total sizes and remaining sizes. I randf -hand got the following output:Filesystem Size Used Avail Use% Mounted on/dev/nvme0n1p6 720G 524G 160G 77% /devtmpfs 7.6G 0 7.6G 0% /devtmpfs 7.7G 128M 7.6G 2% /dev/shmefivarfs 192K 112K 76K 60% /sys/firmware/efi/efivarstmpfs 3.1G 2.4M 3.1G 1% /runtmpfs 7.7G 19M 7.7G 1% /tmpnone 1.0M 0 1.0M 0% /run/credentials/systemd-journald.servicenone 1.0M 0 1.0M 0% /run/credentials/getty@tty1.servicetmpfs 1.6G 132K 1.6G 1% /run/user/1000/dev/nvme1n1p1 3.6T 2.1M 3.4T 1% /home/[my-name-here]/disks/nvme-4tbSo Dolphin seems to be taking thisdevtmpfsfilesystem/partition and reporting it as my/dev/nvme0n1p6root partition? If anyone knows why this is happening I would much appreciate it.Here's the output ofarchey3in case that helps too. I am a bit of a noob with Linux so please be patient with me.OS: Arch Linux x86_64Hostname: archlinuxKernel Release: 6.18.7-arch1-1Uptime: 0:56Packages: 1211RAM: 6271 MB / 15689 MBProcessor Type: 12th Gen Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-12650H$EDITOR: NoneRoot: 524G / 720G (72%) (ext4)
Archinstall Script error Archinstall Script erroru/okchaitanya•28 days agoArchinstall Script errorSUPPORTHi I am new here. I got this error when I tried to dual boot windows and Arch on my Dell Latitude e5410. I've done this hundreds of time before but this error is new for me. I searched online about it and have done downloading the latest iso, using another usb but still the same problem. Please guide me. The error says: Traceback (most recent call last): File "/usr/bin/archinstall", line 5, in <module> from archinstall import run_as_a_module ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'archinstall'
VPN в браузере VPN в браузереu/Ok_Program7356•15 days agoVPN в браузереQUESTIONРебзя, такая проблема: чтобы впн(через Happ) работал в браузере (Firefox), нужно использовать системный прокси(через настройки браузера). Но при выставлении данного параметра, вообще браузер не работает. Если убрать данный параметр, соответственно, впн не работает, браузер работает. Пробовал на гугле, там вообще какой параметр не выбери(в настройках прокси), впн не работает. что делать?использую под впн ключи из тг(покупаю), на телефоне работает нормально, на пк раньше тоже нормально работал,но не знаю что случилось. Менял дистрибутивы - не помогает
Optimization my laptop Optimization my laptopu/Intelligent_Hat_5914•15 days agoOptimization my laptopQUESTIONI wanted to optimize my arch to boot fast and take low power during idleCurrently, my laptop took 20.490 second to boot ( wake up from hiberate )Also, the lowest my laptop watt usage in btop was 4.5WCan you give me tips on how to go lower?also is there any way to make a service that works once after booting to start all the services? the non important one atleast?
Update fucked steam. ¿Help? Update fucked steam. ¿Help?u/Away1387•15 days agoUpdate fucked steam. ¿Help?SUPPORT | SOLVEDI decided to update my arch system, and as it usually does it broke my nvidia drivers, I ended up salvaging them with nouveau because "nvidia" alone wasn't working. I managed to solve the resolution problems and my screens.Mainly by commenting "blacklist nouveau" from "/usr/lib/modprobe.d/nvidia-utils.conf"but now I have a new problem I didn't have before updating, I tried to open a steam game and instead of working as it used to I get this error style box and crashes (can't really show it since this doesn't allow images)Deep rock galactic tries to load and says "A D3D11-compatible GPU (Feature Level 11.0, Shader Model 5.0) is required to run the engine" when loading DirectX11 the same version i was playing yesterday.The one game for now i've tried and works has been tabletop simulator but it maxes my CPU when it never did that.After this I tried making a blacklist.conf in "etc/modprobe.d/" withblacklist nvidia_drmblacklist nvidia_modesetblacklist nvidia_uvmBlacklist nvidiaThis is the journalctlhttps://appdevtools.com/pastebin/LUZxArAnd my specs are:OS: Arch Linux x86_64Host: MS-7845 1.0Kernel: 6.18.7-arch1-1Packages: 1237 (pacman), 50 (flatpak)Resolution: 1600x900, 1920x1080DE: Plasma 6.5.5WM: KWinCPU: Intel i7-4770 (8) @ 3.900GHzGPU: NVIDIA Quadro K620Memory: 6927MiB / 15931MiBI think it must be the graphics drivers, it's what's given the most trouble, it's late in the night, I'm tired and starting to get exhausted with all this shit.Update It was as Said in the comments. I thought the change to nouveau was working because it made my monitors work, but it wasn't. Removing it and steam to solve dependencies, installing nvidia-580xx-dkms nvidia-580xx-utils lib32-nvidia-580xx-utils. Actually fixed it
Can t use my recently installed arch Can t use my recently installed archu/yakkamashi•15 days agoCan t use my recently installed archSUPPORTI launch on arch and then im at the login screen i log on hyprland and then there is a big black screen with big letter some of them written “enjoy your stay. In order to help you get accomodated to hyprland in an easier manner, we prepared a little basic setup, ……..”, “manually launch this welcome app, just execute hyprland-welcome in your terminal.” , “t” button to proceed to the next step of your setup :)”
[Wayland] Random Plasma shell freezes on Arch + NVIDIA. Apps keep working, panels die. [Wayland] Random Plasma shell freezes on Arch + NVIDIA. Apps keep working, panels die.u/eric_goth•16 days ago[Wayland] Random Plasma shell freezes on Arch + NVIDIA. Apps keep working, panels die.SUPPORT[Wayland] Random Plasma shell freezes on Arch + NVIDIA. Apps keep working, panels die.r/kde•16 days ago[Wayland] Random Plasma shell freezes on Arch + NVIDIA. Apps keep working, panels die.Hi everyone,I’m running into a very annoying issue on my Arch Linux setup, and I’m hoping someone here might have a clue.The Setup:OS:Arch LinuxGPU:NVIDIA RTX 3070Driver:nvidia-open-dkmsSession:Plasma (Wayland)The Problem:While using the Wayland session, the Plasma desktop shell randomly freezes.All panels (including the task manager/window list) and desktop widgets become completely unresponsive.However, thesystem itself does not freeze. All running applications continue to work perfectly.I can still switch windows usingAlt+Tab.I can still open KRunner (Alt+Space) to launch new apps or run commands.If I runkillall -9 plasmashellvia KRunner or a terminal, the shell restarts automatically and everything goes back to normal... for a while. The freeze might happen again in 5 minutes or 1 hour; it seems completely random.What I've tried so far:Session type:Switched to X11 ->No issues at all.Everything is stable on X11, so it seems specific to the Wayland/NVIDIA combo.Logs:I tried keepingjournalctl -fopen to catch the moment of the crash, but surprisingly,no relevant error messages appearwhen the freeze happens. It just stops responding silently.Clean config:Created a brand new user with no existing KDE/Plasma config files -> The issue persists.Task Switcher:I initially thought it was triggered by the window selection applet or task manager previews, so I changed the task switcher and disabled previews -> No change.Tried various other kernel parameters and env vars over time, but nothing stuck.Has anyone experienced something similar withnvidia-open-dkmson Wayland recently? Since the logs are silent, I'm a bit lost on where to look next.Thanks in advance!3upvotes·6comments
Why is my update installing Intel firmware when I have no Intel parts? Why is my update installing Intel firmware when I have no Intel parts?u/Unique_Evidence_1314•1 mo. agoWhy is my update installing Intel firmware when I have no Intel parts?QUESTIONI was doing a regular update and saw it installing Intel firmware. What confuses me is I have an AMD CPU and an NVIDIA GPU, so where the hell does Intel fit in there?Can't put images, code blocks are fucky, goddamn.
python error on -Syu python error on -Syuu/angrymidget4728•10 days agopython error on -SyuSUPPORT | SOLVEDRan the regularsudo pacman -Syucommand and got hit with this error log... python: /usr/lib/python3.14/zoneinfo/__pycache__/__init__.cpython-314.opt-1.pyc exists in filesystem (owned by python314) python: /usr/lib/python3.14/zoneinfo/__pycache__/__init__.cpython-314.opt-2.pyc exists in filesystem (owned by python314) python: /usr/lib/python3.14/zoneinfo/__pycache__/__init__.cpython-314.pyc exists in filesystem (owned by python314) python: /usr/lib/python3.14/zoneinfo/__pycache__/_common.cpython-314.opt-1.pyc exists in filesystem (owned by python314) python: /usr/lib/python3.14/zoneinfo/__pycache__/_common.cpython-314.opt-2.pyc exists in filesystem (owned by python314) python: /usr/lib/python3.14/zoneinfo/__pycache__/_common.cpython-314.pyc exists in filesystem (owned by python314) python: /usr/lib/python3.14/zoneinfo/__pycache__/_tzpath.cpython-314.opt-1.pyc exists in filesystem (owned by python314) python: /usr/lib/python3.14/zoneinfo/__pycache__/_tzpath.cpython-314.opt-2.pyc exists in filesystem (owned by python314) python: /usr/lib/python3.14/zoneinfo/__pycache__/_tzpath.cpython-314.pyc exists in filesystem (owned by python314) python: /usr/lib/python3.14/zoneinfo/__pycache__/_zoneinfo.cpython-314.opt-1.pyc exists in filesystem (owned by python314) python: /usr/lib/python3.14/zoneinfo/__pycache__/_zoneinfo.cpython-314.opt-2.pyc exists in filesystem (owned by python314) python: /usr/lib/python3.14/zoneinfo/__pycache__/_zoneinfo.cpython-314.pyc exists in filesystem (owned by python314) python: /usr/lib/python3.14/zoneinfo/_common.py exists in filesystem (owned by python314) python: /usr/lib/python3.14/zoneinfo/_tzpath.py exists in filesystem (owned by python314) python: /usr/lib/python3.14/zoneinfo/_zoneinfo.py exists in filesystem (owned by python314) python: /usr/share/man/man1/python3.14.1.gz exists in filesystem (owned by python314) Errors occurred, no packages were upgraded.The...is hundreds, if not thousands of more lines.pacman -Q pythongivespython 3.13.7-1. I tried manually installing 3.14 withyay -S python314and upgrading withyay -Sua pythonI still gt errors like.... python: /usr/lib/python3.14/zoneinfo/__pycache__/__init__.cpython-314.pyc exists in filesystem (owned by python314) python: /usr/lib/python3.14/zoneinfo/__pycache__/_common.cpython-314.opt-1.pyc exists in filesystem (owned by python314) python: /usr/lib/python3.14/zoneinfo/__pycache__/_common.cpython-314.opt-2.pyc exists in filesystem (owned by python314) python: /usr/lib/python3.14/zoneinfo/__pycache__/_common.cpython-314.pyc exists in filesystem (owned by python314) python: /usr/lib/python3.14/zoneinfo/__pycache__/_tzpath.cpython-314.opt-1.pyc exists in filesystem (owned by python314) python: /usr/lib/python3.14/zoneinfo/__pycache__/_tzpath.cpython-314.opt-2.pyc exists in filesystem (owned by python314) python: /usr/lib/python3.14/zoneinfo/__pycache__/_tzpath.cpython-314.pyc exists in filesystem (owned by python314) python: /usr/lib/python3.14/zoneinfo/__pycache__/_zoneinfo.cpython-314.opt-1.pyc exists in filesystem (owned by python314) python: /usr/lib/python3.14/zoneinfo/__pycache__/_zoneinfo.cpython-314.opt-2.pyc exists in filesystem (owned by python314) python: /usr/lib/python3.14/zoneinfo/__pycache__/_zoneinfo.cpython-314.pyc exists in filesystem (owned by python314) python: /usr/lib/python3.14/zoneinfo/_common.py exists in filesystem (owned by python314) python: /usr/lib/python3.14/zoneinfo/_tzpath.py exists in filesystem (owned by python314) python: /usr/lib/python3.14/zoneinfo/_zoneinfo.py exists in filesystem (owned by python314) python: /usr/share/man/man1/python3.14.1.gz exists in filesystem (owned by python314) Errors occurred, no packages were upgraded.  -> error installing repo packages error installing repo packagesEDIT: Fixed:pacman -R python314thenpacman -SyuI feel pretty silly for this lol. Thanks!Also, just some extra info: I don't want multiple versions of python systemwide. I just want the latest version as a global install and whatever project specific versions in virtual environments.
Best Laptop Hardware and Arch Linux Mix? Best Laptop Hardware and Arch Linux Mix?u/ibsbc•15 days agoBest Laptop Hardware and Arch Linux Mix?QUESTIONI’m wanting to use Arch Linux and join the community. I want the best of both worlds. Best OS paired with clean and elegant hardware. I only have a MacBook. M2. But I’m not seeing many options for installing Arch on a Mac.Has anyone else been using arch on a MacBook M2 and if so, what’s your experience been? Would you recommend it?For others out there, what’s the best alternative hardware people prefer or recommend hardware wise?Thanks in advance!
Audio fix for Asus ROG G14 (and theoretically other laptops) Audio fix for Asus ROG G14 (and theoretically other laptops)u/Pillly-boi•1 mo. agoAudio fix for Asus ROG G14 (and theoretically other laptops)SUPPORT | SOLVEDI had an issue on my laptop (in the title) where lowering the volume would produce increasingly muffled/underwater sounding audio while not actually getting quieter (especially system sounds which oddly were unaffected in anyway, including to changes in loudness), I discovered that leaving the master and speaker channel in alsamixer at 100% while solely adjusting the pcm volume kept the quality perfectly clear and did lower the loudness as intended. After a lot of troubleshooting, here is the fixmake sure you have alsa-utils installed:sudo pacman -S alsa-utilspactl load-module module-remap-sink sink_name=PCM master=alsa_output.pci-0000_00_1f.3.analog-stereo channels=2systemctl --user restart pipewire pipewire-pulse wireplumber-> enter alsamixer and set all channels to 100%-> I did this on KDE plasma 6, so I am not sure the exact way to change this setting on another DE, but, right click volume icon on task manager/bar and click configure audio devices, click on the device that says remmapped alsa... and everything should work just fine regardless of whether you use the keyboard buttons or the taskbar/task manager icon.
Making my laptop secure while running Xfce Making my laptop secure while running Xfceu/helios1014•15 days agoMaking my laptop secure while running XfceQUESTIONSoI have heard that x11 is less secure than Wayland but I don’t have an understanding of why and how I can mitigate the risk of that as I move my windows surface laptop to arch with an Xfce desktop. Any explanations on the security vulnerabilities and how I can best mitigate them?
GTK error!! GTK error!!u/Frequent_Pattern_828•16 days agoGTK error!!SUPPORT  nemo(nemo:3741): Nemo-WARNING **: 19:28:28.252: Current gtk theme is not known to have nemo support (adw-gtk3-dark) - checking...(nemo:3741): Nemo-WARNING **: 19:28:28.348: Action '90_new-launcher.nemo_action' is missing dependency: cinnamon-desktop-editor(nemo:3741): Gtk-WARNING **: 19:28:28.353: Could not load a pixbuf from icon theme. This may indicate that pixbuf loaders or the mime database could not be found. ** Gtk:ERROR:../gtk/gtk/gtkiconhelper.c:495:ensure_surface_for_gicon: assertion failed (error == NULL): Failed to load /home/zoro/.local/share/icons/Tela-circle-black/scalable/apps/image-missing.svg: Unrecognized image file format (gdk-pixbuf-error-quark, 3) Bail out! Gtk:ERROR:../gtk/gtk/gtkiconhelper.c:495:ensure_surface_for_gicon: assertion failed (error == NULL): Failed to load /home/zoro/.local/share/icons/Tela-circle-black/scalable/apps/image-missing.svg: Unrecognized image file format (gdk-pixbuf-error-quark, 3) fish: Job 1, 'nemo' terminated by signal SIGABRT (Abort)What could be the reason i tried knowing and fixing, but i cant do it. Most of the apps are having this issue. Help please!!
Windows tiling with Arch Windows tiling with Archu/isoGUI•4 days agoWindows tiling with ArchQUESTIONI'm considering trying Omarchy, but wanted to get some opinions first. Is Hyperland the go-to for tiling in the first place? Or would it be just the same to select Hyperland (if possible) along with Plasma during the installation process with archinstall?
Problems with On board Inter Ethernet driver I226-V *Solution Problems with On board Inter Ethernet driver I226-V *Solutionu/yoberzo•16 days agoProblems with On board Inter Ethernet driver I226-V *SolutionSUPPORT | SOLVEDI've had a horrible experience with arch thus far with my Ethernet driver constantly crashing (and yes Linux-Firmware is installed and up to date) after trying different solutions Ive found a way to stabilize the connection. But first what was the exact problemMy Ethernet Driver would always crash around the evening, why that specific time I don't know but it did, I've tried reinstalling network manager switching to Systemd disabling split lock and other stuff Ive read that theI226-V is notoriously bad with Linux,but oh boy I wasn't ready for HOW BAD IT IS**.** but I've finally come up with a solution that thus far works without hiccups.first increasing my ring parameters for my specific Ethernet connection to 4096 for RX and TX.And now the final part outright stopping Systemd-networkd and Network-manager I don't know why but that fixed the crashing for me entirely. I also don't use Firewalld but ufw with nftables.I'm posting this here because I couldn't find a single solution online and I found something that works so maybe it can help find a better fix or help others o7relevant info:its the I226-V (rev 6) which had problemsProblem:Random network disconnects/drops despite showing "connected"Brief 1ms "micro-disconnects" causing timeoutsInternet stops working but connection shows UPIssues especially during 8PM-2AMrebooting fixed the issue for about an hour then it would crash againHardware:Motherboard: Asus ROG x870 -AEthernet: Intel I226-V (rev 06)Arch Linux (kernel 6.18+)7900xtx | 9800 x3d | 64gb ddr5 ramWhat DIDN'T work:Limiting to 1GbpsVarious kernel parameterssystemd-networkd or NetworkManagerthese were the errors that kepty popping up every few seconds:[    0.000000] x86/split lock detection: #DB: CHTTPClientThre/6180 took a bus_lock trap at address: 0xf3e106d4 [    0.000000] x86/split lock detection: #DB: CHTTPClientThre/4970 took a bus_lock trap at address: 0xf3e106d4 [    0.000000] x86/split lock detection: #DB: CHTTPClientThre/3381 took a bus_lock trap at address: 0xf3e106d4[    0.000000] x86/split lock detection: #DB: CHTTPClientThre/6180 took a bus_lock trap at address: 0xf3e106d4 [    0.000000] x86/split lock detection: #DB: CHTTPClientThre/4970 took a bus_lock trap at address: 0xf3e106d4 [    0.000000] x86/split lock detection: #DB: CHTTPClientThre/3381 took a bus_lock trap at address: 0xf3e106d4
Problem with TexMaths 0.52.4 Problem with TexMaths 0.52.4u/suorsur2•5 days agoProblem with TexMaths 0.52.4QUESTIONProblem with TexMaths 0.52.4r/libreoffice•5 days agoProblem with TexMaths 0.52.4Recently libreoffice got updated to 26.2 and TexMaths Extension is no longer working properly. When I click the "Latex" button after typing the code inside the text box, nothing is happening. And if I force quit, this error is showing up: Unexpected error (error #3). What am I doing wrong? It was working fine even a few weeks ago.I use Archlinux GNOME.2upvotes·2comments
Help with Wofi settings Help with Wofi settingsu/Riuxia•5 days agoHelp with Wofi settingsQUESTIONI'm using arch linux with hyprland and decided to use wofi as my app launcher, I'm trying to set up an inner box with locked margins, now when i scroll through entries, the top and bottom inner box margins move with it, is there any way of making an inner box that doesn't move at all? Maybe I didn't quite understood the wofi man pages but it doesn't seem to mention anything about it.
Newest svt-av1 and spectacle incompatible packages incompatible? Newest svt-av1 and spectacle incompatible packages incompatible?u/amaurea•4 days agoNewest svt-av1 and spectacle incompatible packages incompatible?SUPPORT | SOLVEDAfter updating today (standard pacman -Syu, no issues), some KDE programs, like spectacle, no longer start because they still depend on libSvtAv1Enc.so.3, even though the svt-av1 package now only provides libSvtAv1Enc.so.4, as you can seehere. My version of these packages are svt-av1 4.0.1-1 and spectacle 1:6.5.5-1, both of which are the current arch versions as far as I can see.It seems like these packages have gone out of sync in the arch systems, but since I haven't seen anybody else mention it, and no mention of it on the archlinux home page, I wonder if this could somehow just be an issue with my setup after all. That's why I wonder if anybody else here sees the same thing.
Just installed Arch (hyprland) and extremely lost Just installed Arch (hyprland) and extremely lostu/Sneaky_Snake7541•16 days agoJust installed Arch (hyprland) and extremely lostQUESTIONI installed Arch through the installer last night and once it boots I have no clue what to do. I really want to learn and use it but it is kinda hard to understand. I’m kind of a beginner to everything but I love learning these new systems.I have looked through probably hundreds of posts and websites but everything I search just goes over the install process. Any help for what/how to download the basics or at least where to look for help???Update!!! I have my basics installed and thank you everyone for y’all’s support. Now time to hate myself even longer while ricing
Braille art in ST Braille art in STu/cleaning_velas_room•16 days agoBraille art in STQUESTIONBraille art in STr/suckless•16 days agoBraille art in STI have tried to make ST look like Kitty, everything is okay except for the braille rendering. Why does the braille in Fastfetch look worse and less smooth in ST than it does in Kitty?5comments
XFCE, unwanted auto-shift of open window to current workspace XFCE, unwanted auto-shift of open window to current workspaceu/Biyeuy•7 days agoXFCE, unwanted auto-shift of open window to current workspaceSUPPORTXFCE, unwanted auto-shift of open window to current workspacer/linux4noobs•7 days agoXFCE, unwanted auto-shift of open window to current workspaceNumber of workspaces in use. There is one app (possibly other show same behavior, however so far not tested) with a plugin installed which links it to other app at runtime (zotero reference manager, editing documents). Both apps must run at the same time in order the link to work. First's window is open in one workspace while the another in different workspace.A click on a gui element in app B pop-up dialog open in app A window results in app B window actually open in second workspace be auto-shifted to current working workspace. This effect is not wanted. Any possibility to counter-configuration exists?1comment
LinNote - A keyboard-first scratchpad for Linux with inline calculator, OCR, and timers [Qt6/C++] LinNote - A keyboard-first scratchpad for Linux with inline calculator, OCR, and timers [Qt6/C++]u/sfiratn•23 days agoLinNote - A keyboard-first scratchpad for Linux with inline calculator, OCR, and timers [Qt6/C++]SHAREBeen working on a scratchpad app for Linux and finally got it to a usable state. Figured I'd share in case anyone finds it useful.What it does:I wanted something like Numi/Parsify but for Linux - basically a note-taking app where you can type math and get results inline.Type100 + 50 =and result appears next to itVariables:tax = 18, then use it in calculationsCurrency:50 USD in EUR =(fetches real-time rates)Units:5 km in miles =,72f in c =Text analysis:sum,avg,countacross linesOther stuff:Multi-page notes with different modes (checklist, code, markdown, timer)OCR screen capture (select region → text extracted)Pomodoro/stopwatch/countdown built-inNote encryption14 themes (Catppuccin, Dracula, Nord, etc.)Global hotkey to toggleTech:Qt6 + C++, works on KDE and GNOME (Wayland native). Tested on Arch, Fedora, Ubuntu.Links:GitHub:https://github.com/sfnemis/linnoteHappy to hear feedback or feature requests. It's MIT licensed if anyone wants to contribute.
My bluetooth mouse isn't working My bluetooth mouse isn't workingu/TechNova27•16 days agoMy bluetooth mouse isn't workingSUPPORTI have a MX anywhere 3s mouse, it's not connecting, I've tested the mouse on other computers, and that blue tooth works on this arch computer, when I try to connect sometimes it just fails, other times it says it's connected, but the mouse isn't working and when I close out of the menu and reopen it it say disconnected.
artifacting on second monitor artifacting on second monitoru/Glum_Term539•5 days agoartifacting on second monitorSUPPORTon my sway wm/wayland in general there's always artifacts on my second monitor with no clear reason why. i've tried the first steps like matching refresh rates, different cable and they didn't change anything. on x11 these issues don't exist. my kernel is 6.18.6-arch1-1, with a rx 6800xt gpu. any help would be greatly appreciated:)
Installing a new kernel taking 6+ hours on my dog water computer Installing a new kernel taking 6+ hours on my dog water computeru/cat-bin-shadow•1 mo. agoInstalling a new kernel taking 6+ hours on my dog water computerQUESTIONMy cpu is a.. let’s say, “good” intel pentium ~2.6ghz from like 10 years ago. I’m using this computer to test some new territory (linux, arch, etc etc) before attempting on my main computer, but my goodness, this new kernel is taking a hot minute to compile.For clarity, I’m trying to install linux-mainline, which right now is 6.19rc5, to tinker with some stuff. Not the end of the world if it doesn’t work. I’m using yay and installing the kernel (and headers) from AUR.About 8 hours ago I started the install the first time and let it run for ~6 hours before going on a beer run, came back, and my computer went to sleep and disrupted the process, where I had to start over. Beer run of impending doomIs this normal to take this long? Just trying to make sure I’m doing it right (but sending it anyways). Grasping at straws trying to get away from Micro$$$hit.https://imgur.com/a/27MCM9Z— editYou guys are super helpful. Even if downvoted. I didn’t know i was compiling the entire kernel, i know what to look out for now.
If I use an old kernel and never update it. Will I have issues long term? If I use an old kernel and never update it. Will I have issues long term?u/MSM_757•28 days agoIf I use an old kernel and never update it. Will I have issues long term?QUESTIONI have an older Nvidia card. one that was recently dropped from support. yes the AUR 580xx driver works. but only up to kernel 6.17.  kernel 6.18 my card doesn't work anymore. I would like to revert back to an older kernel so I can keep using my hardware.  this is not my main PC. it's an old machine i got for free. So I have no interest in upgrading the hardware. it's just not worth it. If it works it works. if not, then oh well.I would like to use the downgrade tool from the AUR to roll back to a previous kernel when things still worked. Then add it to the pacman ignore list so It doesn't automatically get updated back to a newer one.  I know running an outdated kernel can be a security risk. But I don't care. I don't do anything important on this machine. it's connected to my TV as a media server. that's all I use it for.I just want to know if I run an outdated kernel and headers along with the older Nvidia driver from the AUR and add those packages to the ignore list and never update them again, Will that cause problems long term? Or can I expect it to just keep working?I'm asking because I totally botched my install. The answer to this question will help me decide if I want to spend the time and effort on a fresh Arch install or just go with something else. I don't want to do all the work if it isn't going to work out like I want.  That's why I'm asking.  I could always just put Debian on the thing instead. but I very much prefer Arch though. Thoughts?
Please help me!! Please help me!!u/Roomires•16 days agoPlease help me!!QUESTIONPlease help! Recently, I decided to reinstall arch on my PC, but faced with the fact that 10x series graphics cards and so on are not officially supported, well, as far as I understand. I just can't use other distributions, I've already fallen in love with arch and want everything to work, I used DE Gnome almost all the time, but when installing drivers, it either doesn't start or some incomprehensible bullshit happens, I'm not a very experienced user, so I hope for at least someone's help. Help me restore the stable operation of my system :_) I'm not very good at English and I'm writing through a translator, sorry if I got something mixed up somewhere..Just in case, here are the characteristics of my PC: Motherboard: Aorus elite B550m Graphics card: nvidia GeForce gtx 1060 6gb RAM: 32gb
What filesystem do you use for /tmp on Arch? What filesystem do you use for /tmp on Arch?u/i8ad8•22 days agoWhat filesystem do you use for /tmp on Arch?QUESTIONI just realized that on my current setup I mounted/tmpas a btrfs subvolume instead oftmpfs, so its contents persist across reboots.I knowsystemd-tmpfiles-clean.timeris enabled, and from what I understand it cleans files in/tmpif they haven’t been accessed in 10 days by default, but it still feels a bit odd compared to the traditionaltmpfsapproach where everything is wiped on reboot.I’m curious what other Arch users are doing:Do you usetmpfsfor/tmp?Keep it on disk (btrfs/ext4/etc.)?Any pros/cons you’ve noticed in practice (performance, debugging, RAM pressure, snapshots)?Interested to hear real-world setups and reasoning.
splash screen too small splash screen too smallu/CurrentWorking5582•7 days agosplash screen too smallQUESTIONhello im an infant to linux and i had downloaded endvr os on my laptop last week, i wanted a clean and sleek loading screen during boot aka splash (ig) but the duration of it was too short, not even a second while system d messages screen run for around 5-6 seconds covering almost all the boot time. I want mostly splash screen, i asked chat gpt and it said i should look for other distros. Can i prolong to splash screen a reasonable amount in arch itself, coz i wanna stick to arch.
How to change firefox from 44.1khz (default) to 192khz? How to change firefox from 44.1khz (default) to 192khz?u/Professional-Pie8663•27 days agoHow to change firefox from 44.1khz (default) to 192khz?SUPPORTHow can I change firefox from 44.1khz (default) to 192khz? I use pipewire & KDEplasmaI already changed my system to a permenant 192khz. But firefox is still outputting 44.1khz when i check pw-top(I use YouTube music on firefox)
My motherboard's jack port isn't detected My motherboard's jack port isn't detectedu/M4RC055_•16 days agoMy motherboard's jack port isn't detectedSUPPORT | SOLVEDHello, I recently installed Arch and my speaker isn't detected. I changed the speaker port and it worked so I guess that the built-in jack port of the motherboard is the one that isn't detected.Physically it's ok because it works on Windows (I have a dualboot). Someone knows why it happens?Sorry about my bad English 😅EDIT: It was a dumb problem, if I disconnect my headphone it work because there is 2 output in 1. It works on Windows because Windows make a virtual output so you can change it from the os without disconnecting it phisically.
Is it over? Is it over?u/Qtasisko•4 days agoIs it over?SUPPORT | SOLVEDi wanted to get arch, i tried to boot into the iso from my gflash drive and i cant because of secure boot and i cant disable it because my dumbass set an admin password for my bios when i was 12 and i do not know it, is there anything i can do?
Unity freezes when i try to create/open a project on Arch Linux Unity freezes when i try to create/open a project on Arch Linuxu/OkParfait2685•16 days agoUnity freezes when i try to create/open a project on Arch LinuxSUPPORTi installed arch around a month ago and it's working fine, but i can't create or open a new project on Unity ever since i installed it :/it starts the process of opening unity editor, but the loading bar freezes at around 40%i don't know what the problem could be, so i thought maybe someone here could help
black screen after bootloader black screen after bootloaderu/ComparisonGreen•6 days agoblack screen after bootloaderSUPPORTi was trying to install operazer applications(snake, razercommander, etc) to get my mice to 1600dpi, nothing was starting. everytime i tried to open them through cli, there was a import error or share library error concerning icu, fast forward to trying to fix icu.someone recommended me to uninstall icu and reinstall it, there goes my pacman, also my kitty broke because it couldnt find gi, did a reinstall of kitty before doing uninstall for icu, that fixed it.luckily before black screening i had created a boot drive for arch, i installed icu with the `pacman --root=/mnt -Syu icu` now my system wont boot.Also, i can see libvirt fails before i see the black screen with a cursor.what do i do? where do i even look? Should I just reinstall arch? I have a different partition for home directory, so I am not worried about data loss.
People who struggled with running dotnet applications on Arch, what lessons would you share, wish you knew earlier or are struggling with now? People who struggled with running dotnet applications on Arch, what lessons would you share, wish you knew earlier or are struggling with now?u/yandeere-love•7 days agoPeople who struggled with running dotnet applications on Arch, what lessons would you share, wish you knew earlier or are struggling with now?QUESTIONgo ahead and share your experiences
Stylus question Stylus questionu/melandrien•4 days agoStylus questionQUESTIONI'm on Asus ROG Flow Z13 laptop, the 2025 AMD version. KDE on Wayland. Using linux-g14 kernel.The bundled stylus works fine, is recognized by libinput (Capabilities: tablet, think that's what it should be), is recognized by KDE as a pen. It's generally behaving as I would expect.The issue is that mouse cursor is following the stylus tip when I write. Even hovering the stylus above screen makes the cursor appear and follow the tip as I move it around.The expected behavior is that the cursor disappears when the pen is being used. Having the cursor covering whatever it is you're writing is obviously disturbing.Googling the issue didn't get me anywhere.Any pointers?
Cliphist Persistent Clipboard How? Cliphist Persistent Clipboard How?u/ConceptPublic3918•4 days agoCliphist Persistent Clipboard How?QUESTIONhey I'm trying to make it so that when I copy something and close the window, it doesn't delete the thing I had copied. No fancy menu or anything just basic ctrl + V. I know it's possible with wl-clip-persist and such programs but now I'm on Niri Noctalia shell which gets you to install cliphist. Wondering how you do it with that package?
Two archs on one pc (GRUB problem) Two archs on one pc (GRUB problem)u/Low-Resolve36•4 days agoTwo archs on one pc (GRUB problem)SUPPORTHi, I installing arch with "archinstall" and my firts os with KDEIn yesterday I install arch with hyprland, but on other disk, and I cant choise disk for GRUBIf I add hyprland with os-prober and try to launch this, I get error "cant reed partition", but if I select disk with hyprland in UEFI, his started with out errorsThat I should make? (Im so sorry for my english, I hope we understand me)
trying to pkgbuild plasma-welcome but pgp key couldnt be verrified? trying to pkgbuild plasma-welcome but pgp key couldnt be verrified?u/Character_Ad7539•16 days agotrying to pkgbuild plasma-welcome but pgp key couldnt be verrified?SUPPORTIm trying to makepkg plasma-welcome but after importing the keys and trying to it gave me the error:[dio@DIOsNotPC plasma-welcome-main]$ gpg --import /home/dio/Desktop/plasma-welcome-main/keys/pgp/1FA881591C26B276D7A5518EEAAF29B42A678C20.asc gpg: key EAAF29B42A678C20: public key "Marco Martin <notmart@gmail.com>" imported gpg: Total number processed: 1 gpg:               imported: 1 [dio@DIOsNotPC plasma-welcome-main]$ gpg import /home/dio/Desktop/plasma-welcome-main/keys/pgp/D07BD8662C56CB291B316EB2F5675605C74E02CF.asc gpg: WARNING: no command supplied.  Trying to guess what you mean ... usage: gpg [options] [filename] [dio@DIOsNotPC plasma-welcome-main]$ gpg --\import /home/dio/Desktop/plasma-welcome-main/keys/pgp/D07BD8662C56CB291B316EB2F5675605C74E02CF.asc gpg: key F5675605C74E02CF: public key "David Edmundson (David at KDE) <davidedmundson@kde.org>" imported gpg: Total number processed: 1 gpg:               imported: 1 [dio@DIOsNotPC plasma-welcome-main]$ gpg --import /home/dio/Desktop/plasma-welcome-main/keys/pgp/E0A3EB202F8E57528E13E72FD7574483BB57B18D.asc gpg: key D7574483BB57B18D: public key "Jonathan Esk-Riddell <jr@jriddell.org>" imported gpg: Total number processed: 1 gpg:               imported: 1 [dio@DIOsNotPC plasma-welcome-main]$ gpg --import /home/dio/Desktop/plasma-welcome-main/keys/pgp/0AAC775BB6437A8D9AF7A3ACFE0784117FBCE11D.asc gpg: key FE0784117FBCE11D: "Bhushan Shah (mykolab address) <bshah@mykolab.com>" not changed gpg: Total number processed: 1 gpg:              unchanged: 1 [dio@DIOsNotPC plasma-welcome-main]$ makepkg ==> Making package: plasma-welcome 6.5.5-1 (Tue 27 Jan 2026 12:04:24 PM CST) ==> Checking runtime dependencies... ==> Checking buildtime dependencies... ==> Retrieving sources...   -> Found plasma-welcome-6.5.5.tar.xz   -> Found plasma-welcome-6.5.5.tar.xz.sig ==> Validating source files with sha256sums...     plasma-welcome-6.5.5.tar.xz ... Passed     plasma-welcome-6.5.5.tar.xz.sig ... Skipped ==> Verifying source file signatures with gpg...     plasma-welcome-6.5.5.tar.xz ... FAILED (invalid public key 0AAC775BB6437A8D9AF7A3ACFE0784117FBCE11D) ==> ERROR: One or more PGP signatures could not be verified! [dio@DIOsNotPC plasma-welcome-main]$
AUR package does not update properly AUR package does not update properlyu/Adventurous-Pen-401•9 days agoAUR package does not update properlySUPPORTHi everyone. I have prismlauncher installed as an AUR package. Since a few days it pops up as an updateprismlauncher-git10.0.0.pre1.r339.g9e86c44f7-1->latest-commitbut after running through without errors it appears again next time. I'm quite new to Linux and AUR packages and don't know what could be the problem here?
Second screen for arch linux Second screen for arch linuxu/Not_NobodyGamerz•5 days agoSecond screen for arch linuxQUESTIONSo i have a pc which has arch linux and a macbook air 2015 running windows, i want to use the laptop as a secondary display (wirelessly like spacedesk)i have x11 kde plasma wayland is too buggy on my pc i have GT710
How to uncomment servers in the mirror list (noob question) How to uncomment servers in the mirror list (noob question)u/EngixoRain•8 days agoHow to uncomment servers in the mirror list (noob question)QUESTIONHi, Im in the process of manually downloading arch Linux, This is my first Linux experience and overall its been a bit easy up until this point, Mirrors are a bit confusing to me, I know what they are but I dont know how to set up my mirrorlist, I went on nano to edit it but am insanely confused on what to do, I live in the gulf and would like to uncomment worldwide,Saudi Arabia and the UAE. Any help would be greatly appreciated
Arch Linux in emergency mode (cannot boot up) Arch Linux in emergency mode (cannot boot up)u/Odd-Environment3669•1 mo. agoArch Linux in emergency mode (cannot boot up)SUPPORT | SOLVEDOk, so I am a complete noob at this and I made a HUGE mistake. So I bought an SSD of about 1tb of memory and I have been struggling go make Arch Linux recognize it, but I have succeeded. The problem was, I could only make changes to it when booting it in root. Then I have looked at a YouTube video which explains in about 5min how to make your drivers permanently mounted, which I thought would solve my problem. The problem is that I've literally made up a mounting location for my SSD which doesn't exist (I've supposed that the OS just creates one), and upon restart it entered in the emergency mode because it cannot mount the drive. How do I solve this? Is there a solution without just having to reinstall the whole OS and the files in it again?Is it time... to switch to Mint?
Got a problem on arch Got a problem on archu/Askii45•16 days agoGot a problem on archSUPPORT | SOLVEDThe system is saying i only have 100gbs left of space when im sure i have more since i deleted a 100gb game and it didnt go down from what it was saying can somebody help me please?
Need help! Getting low fps on CS2 Need help! Getting low fps on CS2u/Best_Violinist6036•16 days agoNeed help! Getting low fps on CS2SUPPORTNot quite sure if i should post that here but anyways.Specs:Arch linuxKDE PlasmaAsus Tuf gaming FX505DTryzen 5 3550HGTX 1650I installed Arch manually following the official installation guide.i am using the nvidia-open driveri`ve been getting low fps compared to what i get on windows. Windows usual 80-100 fps, and i get 45-70 with the same settings in game on linuxAt first i used xfce, turning off compositor solved my issue and i got the fps back, right after that i decided to move to KDE. I installed kde with plasma-desktop package and launched cs on there, it worked well too. Then i decided to uninstall xfce and all the packages related to it and stick to KDE but i may have deleted some important packages so i had to reinstall kde too from TTY, and after that the low fps started happening.Reinstalling CS did not help, installing prime did not help, installing power profiles did not help, the gpu in nvidia-smi was running at its full performanceFirst time posting, let me know what i have missed in my issue description, i apologise for my bad english
Help please Help pleaseu/richpaul6806•4 days agoHelp pleaseSUPPORThttps://imgur.com/a/qEmwSEDI haven't used my laptop in a year or so. Tried to update had a few issues with dependencies. Doing some googling it was suggested to use pacman -sydd which was obviously not the thing to do. Now it won't boot at all. What can I do?
Archinstall fails: chgrp: invalid group 'systemd-journal-remote' during pacstrap Archinstall fails: chgrp: invalid group 'systemd-journal-remote' during pacstrapu/IndependentSeaweed83•7 days agoArchinstall fails: chgrp: invalid group 'systemd-journal-remote' during pacstrapSUPPORT | SOLVEDhttps://ibb.co/R4chWTN9
Local image generation (like stable diffusion) ever possible on Arch Local image generation (like stable diffusion) ever possible on Archu/Mordimer86•4 days agoLocal image generation (like stable diffusion) ever possible on ArchSUPPORTOn AMD hardware, 7900XT to be specificLike in the title. I have been fighting it for a few days but it seems technically impossible to get running. Anyone has a guide or something to help?
A proper, Wayland compatible GUI for NetworkManager A proper, Wayland compatible GUI for NetworkManageru/cachebags•20 days agoA proper, Wayland compatible GUI for NetworkManagerSHAREA proper GUI for NetworkManagerr/hyprland•20 days agoA proper GUI for NetworkManagerHopping back in here to let everyone know I've made some decent progress onnmrs-gui, a proper Wayland compatible GUI for NetworkManager.It's also quite stable now and I personally use it everyday on my config! This is thanks to the considerable effort I've put into the API itself.You can install it viayayorparu. I also provide a Nix derivation.Repo:https://github.com/cachebag/nmrsFeatures:A simple advanced settings pageProper state watching for instant feedback and responseThemes - both pre-loaded via a dropdown menu, or you can make your own in~/.config/nmrs/style.cssEthernet connectionsWiFi, of course (both 5g and 2.4g)EAP connections- for my Uni students out there, no more painstakingly connecting to eduroam :DIn the pipeline:VPN: The library supports WireGuard but I'm waiting to implement OpenVPN to expand the reach (contributions are welcome!)Granular control over connection typesManual IP configuration (IPv4/IPv6)Advanced DNS settingsPer-connection routing optionsImproved EAP configuration controlsHope this is of use to people! I am open to all feedback, bug reports and feature requests!74upvotes·14comments
Best Network Handler? Best Network Handler?u/ConceptPublic3918•7 days agoBest Network Handler?QUESTIONIWD, Connman or something else? I'm looking for the best modern lightweight all-in-one solution.
Why is audio broken with PS4 controller connected? Why is audio broken with PS4 controller connected?u/BlueGoliath•6 days agoWhy is audio broken with PS4 controller connected?SUPPORTPS4 controller plugged in and the audio device switches to PS4 controller but no sound plays from it.Switch it back to "Line Out" and nothing plays from headphones.Unplug the controller and I have to switch between audio devices to get audio to work again.Did an update break audio?
Hyper key on gnome wayland Hyper key on gnome waylandu/luffyacekun•7 days agoHyper key on gnome waylandSUPPORTI switched to arch 3 months ago, I was able to set my capslock to hyper key. Recently I changed my ssd and re install arch, I don't remember how exactly what I did to set capslock to hyper key, gnome tweak doesn't work (I remember it doesn't work last time either) Could any one guide me to set it again please!
Having problems with my notebook. Having problems with my notebook.u/BlueCrusader_•17 days agoHaving problems with my notebook.SUPPORT | SOLVEDSince this morning after I rebooted my notebook, everytime I try to start arch I get stuck on the boot screen."Booting 'Arch Linux'Loading Linux linux-lts...Loading initial ramdisk... "Could you guys please try to help me? I don't know what to do anymore. Just to explain, I'm using KDE PLASMA, and I'm not actually stuck or crashed on this screen, im still able to access the terminal with "ctrl + alt + F4".EDIT: Problem solved, i just needed to switch the autentication screen Theme with sudo nano.
wifi slow as empty wheelchair wifi slow as empty wheelchairu/thedonkalonk•16 days agowifi slow as empty wheelchairSUPPORTrecently installed arch linux and im currently dual booting with windows on a seperate disk. My wifi on arch is ridiculously slow and i cant seem to figure out why. Its running at bytes per second and the most ive seen is about 2kb/s. im using network manager with an iwd backend just wondered if anyone knows anything. If you want any photos to try decipher my problem just ask :-)
How to identify the efi partitions... Is it even safe to remove?? How to identify the efi partitions... Is it even safe to remove??u/STAYSIGUT•20 days agoHow to identify the efi partitions... Is it even safe to remove??QUESTIONI have 3 efi partition in my pc and I am sure the one with 260 MB and 1GB is windows and linux efi partitions respectively.. but I am not sure what the last one is(1.95GB). How do I explore what that is and is it safe to remove(if yes. then how?).
System freeze after login System freeze after loginu/unauthorisedchamp•6 days agoSystem freeze after loginSUPPORTI have done sudo pacman -Syu and installed a big update lately and now the screen is freezing after I enter my password and enter , it freeze at showing the wallpaper and cursor , cannot enter tty from here , can go to tty at the login screen , uses kde. It randomly worked after like a day but after restart the same problem persists
Fans keep turning on on battery mode Fans keep turning on on battery modeu/problemakinglicker•17 days agoFans keep turning on on battery modeSUPPORTI tried to use ppd, autocpufrequency, tlp nothing worked. I have an asus zephyrus g14 (2024), it doesn't have fan curves in the bios. Asusctl "has" fan curves, but even when I set it so the fans only started at 60 °C they still turn on at 40-45. What am I missing? W indows with g-helper didn't have this issue, the fans never turned on on battery.
How long should I be using Linux to go and try Arch? How long should I be using Linux to go and try Arch?u/KnightFallVader2•4 days agoHow long should I be using Linux to go and try Arch?QUESTIONI think I might want to try a beginner distro like Mint or Zorin for at least 1-2 months before giving Arch, or anything else Arch based, a go. People do say Arch is being less and less painful for beginners, but I don't personally think so. There's still things like the manual installation and system maintenance that I may have to deal with. What do you all think? How much Linux experience should I probably have for Arch?
Secure boot resetting every time i save my BIOS Secure boot resetting every time i save my BIOSu/AdditionArtistic1862•16 days agoSecure boot resetting every time i save my BIOSSUPPORT | SOLVEDhttps://drive.google.com/file/d/1m94HGeT2sChlEOb5E5QN1QfDpOGRdpIi/view?usp=sharing
Switching from windows to Linux Switching from windows to Linuxu/PinguinPlayz•6 days agoSwitching from windows to LinuxQUESTIONI am wanting to switch from Win10 to Linux, particularly Arch Linux. As Linux is new to me, I did a bit of research and created this list for myself as a sort-of guide for the installation/setup. Is this list a decent approach for installing and setting up Arch Linux for a personal home computer? (I will be the only user)This computer will be used as my home desktop where I will be using it for gaming, school/work, personal project.School/work involves primary Circuit Analysis (LTSpice, Quartus), CAD (KiCAD, FreeCAD), Programming (VSCodium), etc.I am open to suggestions and feel free to ask questions for more information. Although I am very new to Linux, I am willing to learn and spend time playing around with Linux.(I might create a setup I can also use for a laptop)During InstallationDedicated /home directory ["/" "/boot" "/swap" and "/home"]I have 2 NVMe sticks, 1TB and 2TB, how should I manage this with the directories?Separate user from superuser (root)Bootloader (e.g. Systemd-boot, GRUB)Compositor/DE (e.g. Hyprland, GNOME)Post InstallationSystem UpdateInstall yay, flatpaks, and compatibility tool like wineInstall core apps (git, office suite, browser, etc.)Setup ~/src folder for projectsSetup backup/security systemsPassword Manager (e.g. Bitwarden)Backup Control (e.g. Timeshift)Firewall (e.g. ??)Login Manager (e.g. hyprlock if using hyprland)Additional StuffSteam + ProtonPlusMinor Ricing (I.e. shell, fonts, wallpaper, etc.)Stuff like DockerDotfiles
Filesystem and partition table completely gone after overfilling the disk, how to repair? Filesystem and partition table completely gone after overfilling the disk, how to repair?u/Andrewyg18•28 days agoFilesystem and partition table completely gone after overfilling the disk, how to repair?SUPPORTHi,Recently I've accidentally overfilled my disk to a point that I can't even login, which leads me to just shutdown the machine and try to fix it using another arch live CD. But when I booted through the live CD, the it causes (i think) a regression leading to the whole disk to be corrupted. Currentlylsblkandfdisk -lboth only show my disk as/dev/sdawith no further partition, and according to fdisk there is no partition table on the drive. I'm using btrfs, but currently no btrfs tool even recognise the filesystem, they all say no btrfs detected.Note that before going to the live CD, I've try to reboot a view times of the virtual machine, and they did booted up successfully to the tty login part, on which I cannot login because I think the google authenticator pam needs to write to the file, but obviously there's no more disk space to write. But the system did in fact survived a few reboot, which makes me wonder what causes the disk to just get completely bricked when I turn to the live CD, and now I can't even boot back to the system despite removing the live CD.Second note, due to some historical reason and that I'm too lazy to reformat the disk, I ended up putting my boot partition (BIOS not EFI) at the end of my disk, i.e. the first 99GB is /dev/sda1 formatted as btrfs, and the last 1GB is /dev/sda2 formatted as fat32 for BIOS. This made me to suspect the BIOS part might get overwritten when the btrfs part overfilled, though I'm not sure if it's technically possible.But even so, it should only lead to the disk being unbootable, but not completely wipe out the partition table even when inspected through another live CD.Is there anyway I can rescue the disk? Maybe using fdisk to regenerate the partition table again without formatting out the existing data?Edit, I'm using limine+snapper, and there is a possibility that a snapshot is automatically taken and  takes too much space causing the boot partition to get messed up?Edit, from the hosting provider:root @ aspiring ➜  ~  qm config 227 boot: order=scsi0 cores: 4 cpu: host description: {"user_id"%3A"22791","service_id"%3A"19326","creation_time"%3A"Fri Jan 24 2025 23%3A01%3A03 GMT+1300"} memory: 2048 meta: creation-qemu=9.2.0,ctime=1756156305 name: (redacted) net0: virtio=BC:24:11:14:0E:55,bridge=vmbr0,firewall=1 numa: 0 onboot: 1 ostype: l26 scsi0: stor:227/vm-227-disk-0.qcow2,iothread=1,size=100G,ssd=1 scsihw: virtio-scsi-single smbios1: uuid=b68c8f6f-2544-4ede-9bd8-78e310d913fe sockets: 1 vmgenid: ee19ed31-329f-468c-9c46-5f51646d964c root @ aspiring ➜  ~  qemu-img check /mnt/pve/stor/images/227/vm-227-disk-0.qcow2 No errors were found on the image. 1638400/1638400 = 100.00% allocated, 0.00% fragmented, 0.00% compressed clusters Image end offset: 107390828544 root @ aspiring ➜  ~  fsck -v /mnt/pve/stor/images/227/vm-227-disk-0.qcow2 fsck from util-linux 2.41 e2fsck 1.47.2 (1-Jan-2025) ext2fs_open2: Bad magic number in super-block fsck.ext2: Superblock invalid, trying backup blocks... fsck.ext2: Bad magic number in super-block while trying to open /mnt/pve/stor/images/227/vm-227-disk-0.qcow2  The superblock could not be read or does not describe a valid ext2/ext3/ext4 filesystem.  If the device is valid and it really contains an ext2/ext3/ext4 filesystem (and not swap or ufs or something else), then the superblock is corrupt, and you might try running e2fsck with an alternate superblock:     e2fsck -b 8193 <device>  or     e2fsck -b 32768 <device>
Open discord in Russia on arch Open discord in Russia on archu/Specific-Basil-3555•16 days agoOpen discord in Russia on archSUPPORTOkay, guys, I downloaded Arch Linux, installed Gnome, and was enjoying it, but then a problem arose. I want to download Discord, but I'm from Russia. I was able to download it, but it won't start. The problem isn't with the drivers, etc. It just won't start.I tried zapret, zapret2, amneziavpn, zapret-youtube, discordfix and it didn't help. Are there any ways to run Discord? I'm even willing to pay up for it. there were also some minor problems with modrinth And prism launcher
Snapshots and missing files.. Snapshots and missing files..u/Raddinox•5 days agoSnapshots and missing files..SUPPORTSnapshots and missing files..r/btrfs•5 days agoSnapshots and missing files..Hello, so I'm running Arch BTW (sorry, could not resist)Anyway I have manually created a BTRFS snapshot for my root (@) before I update the system with pacman. My update yesterday broke so I did a rollback to the snapshot before the update.But what I noticed is that my cachyos bore kernel is missing from that snapshot. And when I browse through /.snapshots/ on my previously made snapshots I can see that the snapshot before the one I rolled back to is missing both the Arch default kernel and the cachyos kernel. How is that even possible (/boot is not it's own partition, the same as @)?To create my snapshot I just run:sudo btrfs subvolume snapshot -r / /.snapshots/update-20260208isn't that the way to do it?16comments
Will Arch run smoothly on this old CPU? Will Arch run smoothly on this old CPU?u/Z3R0_C00L_007•17 days agoWill Arch run smoothly on this old CPU?QUESTIONI've got an old CPU from a friend which was lying around in his house unused. It's in working condition, currently running windows 7. I was wondering if Arch with a window manager like i3 or awesome would run smoothly on this 3rd gen old hardware.Here’s the specs.Intel Core i3-3210 CPU @ 3.20GHz 256 GB SSD 8 GB RAM X64 -based processor
Openresolv with IWD: /etc/resolv.conf is manual Openresolv with IWD: /etc/resolv.conf is manualu/Axl0_fr•17 days agoOpenresolv with IWD: /etc/resolv.conf is manualSUPPORTI'm using IWD with openresolv. the/etc/resolv.conffile is, for some reason, not automatically updatewhen switching wifi networks. i tried making it run the appropriate command (resolvconf -u) when changing networks through a systemd.serviceand a udev.rules, but when usingjournalctl -fI can see that it refuses to write due to a permission error:iwd\[4784\]: /usr/lib/resolvconf/libc: line 259: /etc/resolv.conf: Read-only file systemI have tried changing the file's permissions but it doesn't fix it. (I tried checking if/etcwas mounted asreadonly, but it didn't appear when  runningmount, and if it wasreadonlyi wouldn't be able to it it, eve usingsudowould I?)I have no idea what I' doing quite frankly.
Am i going insane in installation? Am i going insane in installation?u/The_Disposable_Hat•5 days agoAm i going insane in installation?SUPPORT | SOLVEDTrying to decipher arch linux install guides and the wikiI’m trying to run this from a usb as a sort of ‘carry-able OS’. Every time i install i get stumped over installation steps yet usually figure the answer out; hit a roadblock with this one though.((Using this tutorial))https://youtu.be/68z11VAYMS8My /dev/sda1 boot partition is supposed to mount to /mnt/boot/efiAfter creating partitions, mounting them and using pacstrap for installation i’m supposed to use genfstab to see its mounted correctly.Using:Genfstab /I get:/dev/sda1    /mnt/boot/efi    vfat      Rw,relatime,fmask=002…/dev/sda3    /mnt    Ext4    Re,relatime/dev/sda2    None     Swap     DefaultsHOWEVERUsing:Genfstab /mntI only get:/dev/sda3    /mnt    Ext4    Re,relatime/dev/sda2    None     Swap     DefaultsWith no sda1…? I can’t reason why
Broke and trying to self-host on my laptop is it bad idea? Broke and trying to self-host on my laptop is it bad idea?u/Lolzoz404•1 mo. agoBroke and trying to self-host on my laptop is it bad idea?QUESTIONHi, I’m using a laptop with a ryzen 5 5600h, gtx 1650, and 8 gigs of RAM. I’m running Arch with Hyprland.I’m planning to use this laptop as my day-to-day workstation and also as a small server — for example, running Podman with Pi-hole and similar services. Do you think this is a good idea? Do you have any recommendations?P.S. I can’t afford even a second-hand laptop or computer. I’m broke :(
Everything arch’s trying to do, Nix does it better ? Everything arch’s trying to do, Nix does it better ?u/ray_aldous•5 days agoEverything arch’s trying to do, Nix does it better ?DISCUSSIONFirst of all, I want to say I’m neither an Arch user nor a NixOS user. I’m on Fedora and planning to move to Arch soon.But on Twitter, I came across a tweet saying “Everything that Arch is trying to do, Nix does it better.” When I looked at the replies, I didn’t see any response that wasn’t just personal taste.So I looked into it a bit myself, and the most basic arguments I could come up with were “Arch has the AUR” and “the Arch Wiki is unbeatable.” Which is true, but those feel like they exist alongside Arch rather than being part of its actual core.So, beyond the AUR and the Wiki, does anyone have arguments that aren’t just personal preference for things Arch genuinely does better than Nix?I want to add that even though I’m not an Arch user yet, after all the research I’ve done, I have this gut feeling that Arch is the better fit, but I can’t really articulate why since I haven’t actually used either one.And obviously I know the choice of a distro depends on what you want to do and what kind of philosophy you’re into. I’m just curious to hear concrete points where Arch comes out ahead.​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​
Middle mouse click scroll doesn't work : easiest fix Middle mouse click scroll doesn't work : easiest fixu/NoodleNinja_04•22 days agoMiddle mouse click scroll doesn't work : easiest fixSUPPORT | SOLVEDa chrome extension basically that I created.I have seen many people complain that the middle mouse click doesn't scroll webpages across many linux distros and other operating systems, and since it's hard to navigate through settings to fix this issue for many of us,I have created an extension to fix this issue : )GitHub:https://github.com/rey-1e/AutoScroll.gitWebstore:https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/phfmhcilnldcfjklaefgaiplpaencogp?utm\_source=item-share-cpThis isn't available on other browsers except chrome, but I'll try my best to release this for other browsers as well soon enough.
i want arch to be my main!! i want arch to be my main!!u/Kooky-Painting-4981•5 days agoi want arch to be my main!!SUPPORTi want to use arch as my default so badly but right now i do dual boot with windows and the reason i am not using arch as my only system is that it has some problems that seem to be impossible to solve:i have a problem with suspending/resuming, i have an old nvidia kepler, suspending and resuming works most of the time, but it sometimes does not resume to my bspwm instead it shows a black screen, and on every successful resume, firefox doesn't use my nvidia to play videos anymore.arch wiki seems to say that it wont work with old cards like mine and thats it. which was disappointingi searched in google and asked chatgpt how to solve this but couldnt, it became stressingon top of this, because of dual booting ig, every now and then the audio or the wifi doesnt work in arch, i disabled fast startup in windows and clicked the power button 10s after turning it off and yet that works only sometimes.another problem is that when scrolling insta, first 10videos works normally and then the audio stop working only for insta, restarting firefox helps, how can i fix that, didnt find anything on the netis every problem for you seem to be unsolvable until you try your best? or you need to live with them?
Search text in all man pages Search text in all man pagesu/Beautiful-Log5632•21 days agoSearch text in all man pagesSUPPORTWith the apropos command I can search titles of all man pages but what about the text in them? Sometimes I want to look up a setting but I don't know which man page talks about it.If there's no command that can do it are there standard locations where all man pages go so I can use grep if man pages are just text?
Unable to install any applications on my arch Unable to install any applications on my archu/DhanuPrakaash•5 days agoUnable to install any applications on my archSUPPORTSo, i was not using this particular PC for a long time and i got some time today and decided to run it... I updated the system using the "sudo pacman -Syu" command and it completed smooth as a butter.But the problem started is when i tried to install and emulator application using yay(as the application is a AUR) i came across the below error at the end of the installation. This is happening while trying to install any application. Is there anything i'm doing wrong?Building plutovg...-- The C compiler identification is unknown-- Detecting C compiler ABI info-- Detecting C compiler ABI info - failed-- Check for working C compiler: /usr/bin/clang-- Check for working C compiler: /usr/bin/clang - brokenCMake Error at /usr/share/cmake/Modules/CMakeTestCCompiler.cmake:67 (message):The C compiler"/usr/bin/clang"is not able to compile a simple test program.It fails with the following output:Change Dir: '/home/dhanu/.cache/yay/pcsx2/src/build_plutovg/CMakeFiles/CMakeScratch/TryCompile-jig551'Run Build Command(s): /usr/bin/ninja -v cmTC_f5ac3[1/2] /usr/bin/clang   -march=x86-64 -mtune=generic -O2 -pipe -fno-plt -fexceptions         -Wp,-D_FORTIFY_SOURCE=3 -Wformat -Werror=format-security         -fstack-clash-protection -fcf-protection         -fno-omit-frame-pointer -mno-omit-leaf-frame-pointer -flto=auto -o CMakeFiles/cmTC_f5ac3.dir/testCCompiler.c.o -c /home/dhanu/.cache/yay/pcsx2/src/build_plutovg/CMakeFiles/CMakeScratch/TryCompile-jig551/testCCompiler.cFAILED: [code=127] CMakeFiles/cmTC_f5ac3.dir/testCCompiler.c.o/usr/bin/clang   -march=x86-64 -mtune=generic -O2 -pipe -fno-plt -fexceptions         -Wp,-D_FORTIFY_SOURCE=3 -Wformat -Werror=format-security         -fstack-clash-protection -fcf-protection         -fno-omit-frame-pointer -mno-omit-leaf-frame-pointer -flto=auto -o CMakeFiles/cmTC_f5ac3.dir/testCCompiler.c.o -c /home/dhanu/.cache/yay/pcsx2/src/build_plutovg/CMakeFiles/CMakeScratch/TryCompile-jig551/testCCompiler.c/usr/bin/clang: error while loading shared libraries: libLLVM.so.21.1: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directoryninja: build stopped: subcommand failed.CMake will not be able to correctly generate this project.Call Stack (most recent call first):CMakeLists.txt:7 (project)-- Configuring incomplete, errors occurred!==> ERROR: A failure occurred in build().Aborting...-> error making: pcsx2-exit status 4-> Failed to install the following packages. Manual intervention is required:pcsx2 - exit status 4What would be the solution for this?
Archboot: Kmscon gives a real fresh terminal experience Archboot: Kmscon gives a real fresh terminal experienceu/tobiaspowalowski•21 days agoArchboot: Kmscon gives a real fresh terminal experienceNOTEWORTHYArchboot: Kmscon gives a real fresh terminal experiencer/archboot•21 days agoArchboot: Kmscon gives a real fresh terminal experienceHi folks,Those who might followed the git tree the last days, may have already seen what happened under the hood. I heavily worked on KMSCON support, which gives a whole new virtual terminal experience. Just to name some major improvements:mouse/touchscreen support, including copy and pasteon screen font resize supporton screen rotation supportcolored and scrollable journal and logbackscrolling in VC does now work againAll supported desktop environments will work with KMSCON as VC/VT starting base.It's time to test this new feature widely and please give feedback, if you still have any issues.I think it's quite finished and enabled in today's image files already.For tomorrow, I moved the programs to lower VCs to be able to access it from chromebooks, which don't have F11 and F12 keys. Windowkey VT switching is not working on kmscon anymore.It's a real pleasure now to work in VMs or real machines on the console.I hope you all enjoy this new features, which is quite unique in the Arch Linux world for now.Have fun,tpowa13upvotes
Archinstall + Hyprland not working? Archinstall + Hyprland not working?u/Ok_Grapefruit_919•17 days agoArchinstall + Hyprland not working?SUPPORTHellor/archlinux,I am trying to install Arch Linux with Hyprland land and I was following this tutorialhttps://youtu.be/T20IZdgBZ_g?si=qj8K_y1CWW8DYO5T, and the problem is that i when I reboot into the system the Hyprland desktop does show up only the normal start screen without anything. How can I fix this or are there other dotfiles I could try out?oh and btw I get this “Hyprland was started without start-Hyprland” notice when I start into Hyprland maybe it’s because of this. pls help
I have installed "nvidia-340xx" drivers from AUR packages. Aaand arch died. I have installed "nvidia-340xx" drivers from AUR packages. Aaand arch died.u/Amr112345•7 days agoI have installed "nvidia-340xx" drivers from AUR packages. Aaand arch died.SUPPORTI have installed the nvidia drivers from there --->https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/nvidia-340xx) and nvidia-smi works and I have blacklisted nouveau. After rebooting the pc the lock screen is at a very low resolution and when I type in the password and enter, it shows a black screen for 2 sec and returns me back in the lock screen. Do you have any suggestion on what should I do?Specs:Nvidia Geforce 310, Intel Core i3 2120, 8GB RAM, SATA SSD.Desktop: HyprlandLatest version arch
Trying to use custom boot animation using Plymouth on Arch but hp logo keeps reappearing mid animation?? Trying to use custom boot animation using Plymouth on Arch but hp logo keeps reappearing mid animation??u/Superb-Assistance-82•17 days agoTrying to use custom boot animation using Plymouth on Arch but hp logo keeps reappearing mid animation??SUPPORTHello, Everyone I have been using Linux now for about a year I started with Ubuntu cause I thought there would be a learning curve when switching from Windows cause my laptop does not support the new windows  and i wanted to try Linux as well, but after a month into it I started distro hoping trying out different things mostly arch based stuff with preconfigured system just to experience the hyprland I realized that it wasn't as hard as everyone said to be, i now have installed pure arch (Used the script lol cause i ain't doing that whole thing if it can easily install it via script) uhm uhm, so now I'm trying to do my own ricing thing I think that's enough for the intro. I have run into a issue in my Elitebook 820 G2 laptop where when setting a custom boot animation using plymouth i did all the required changes in grub and mkinitcpio for it to use the animation when booting now the thing is it does work but the hp logo keeps appearing either after or in the middle of the animation, how do i fix this I've been trying since yesterday and it's  not workinggggg???
dotfiles installation dotfiles installationu/Low-Exchange8364•6 days agodotfiles installationSUPPORTFirst, please be patient with my ignorance and stupidity. I just installed Arch Linux (using archinstall) and I want to install this dotfile to get the same look, but every time I install it (with the help of ChatGPT), I end up with a messed-up display and a frozen screen. Can anyone help me solve this problem?dotfile:https://github.com/aprilfridae/dotfiles2
sudo pacman -USyu .tar works not, so how to? sudo pacman -USyu .tar works not, so how to?u/ecccc3•6 days agosudo pacman -USyu .tar works not, so how to?SUPPORTI wanna patch systemdhttps://gitlab.archlinux.org/archlinux/packaging/packages/systemd/-/issues/66, there's actually:[a@archlinux ~]$ sudo pacman -Syu:: Synchronizing package databases...core is up to dateextra is up to datemultilib is up to date:: Starting full system upgrade...resolving dependencies...looking for conflicting packages...Packages (4) lib32-systemd-259.1-1  systemd-259.1-1  systemd-libs-259.1-1  systemd-sysvcompat-259.1-1Total Download Size:   11.51 MiBTotal Installed Size:  41.81 MiBNet Upgrade Size:       0.18 MiB:: Proceed with installation? [Y/n]I tried:[a@archlinux ~]$ cd /tmpwget --content-dispositionhttps://archlinux.org/packages/core/x86_64/systemd/download/tar --one-top-level -xf systemd-*-x86_64.pkg.tar.zstrm systemd-*-x86_64.pkg.tar.zstsed -i 15,17d systemd-*-x86_64.pkg/usr/lib/tmpfiles.d/var.conftar -cf .tar -C systemd-*-x86_64.pkg $(ls -A systemd-*-x86_64.pkg)rm -r systemd-*-x86_64.pkgsudo pacman -USyu .tarrm .tar--2026-02-07 13:47:29--https://archlinux.org/packages/core/x86_64/systemd/download/Loaded CA certificate '/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt'Resolving archlinux.org (archlinux.org)... 2604:cac0:a104:d::3, 209.126.35.79Connecting to archlinux.org (archlinux.org)|2604:cac0:a104:d::3|:443... connected.HTTP request sent, awaiting response... 302 FoundLocation:https://umea.mirror.pkgbuild.com/core/os/x86_64/systemd-259.1-1-x86_64.pkg.tar.zst[following]--2026-02-07 13:47:30--https://umea.mirror.pkgbuild.com/core/os/x86_64/systemd-259.1-1-x86_64.pkg.tar.zstResolving umea.mirror.pkgbuild.com (umea.mirror.pkgbuild.com)... 2001:6b0:19:2::121, 194.71.11.121Connecting to umea.mirror.pkgbuild.com (umea.mirror.pkgbuild.com)|2001:6b0:19:2::121|:443... connected.HTTP request sent, awaiting response... 200 OKLength: 9892995 (9.4M) [application/zstd]Saving to: ‘systemd-259.1-1-x86_64.pkg.tar.zst’systemd-259.1-1-x86_64.pkg.tar.zst                         100%[========================================================================================================================================>]   9.43M  19.2MB/s    in 0.5s2026-02-07 13:47:31 (19.2 MB/s) - ‘systemd-259.1-1-x86_64.pkg.tar.zst’ saved [9892995/9892995]error: only one operation may be used at a timeOnlysudo pacman -U .tar:loading packages...resolving dependencies...looking for conflicting packages...error: failed to prepare transaction (could not satisfy dependencies):: installing systemd (259.1-1) breaks dependency 'systemd=259' required by systemd-sysvcompatSo how to?
Youtube videos plays glitchy on debian but smooth on Arch Youtube videos plays glitchy on debian but smooth on Archu/El_Diablo_official•16 days agoYoutube videos plays glitchy on debian but smooth on ArchQUESTIONBasically,  i tried ubuntu, fedora, pop os with Gnome, LXQT and xfce, just for fun but i noticed that youtube videos in through out on all this glitches like it lags does not play smooth.As i switched back to my Arch all time favorite,  the videos plays hot knife on butter, i dont wanna go for research online right simply wanna know does any else felt the same?
Moving from Mac to Arch. Best purist or pro Linux user GUI? Moving from Mac to Arch. Best purist or pro Linux user GUI?u/ibsbc•7 days agoMoving from Mac to Arch. Best purist or pro Linux user GUI?QUESTIONWhat gui do the pros use for work their daily drivers? I prefer terminal only to keep things real lean but it seems like that just isn’t possible in enterprise jobs because there are some apps I have to access so a Linux gui with a browser will be needed for things like outlook and jira.What do the pros use that’s powerful fast and easy on the eyes. Dark mode prioritization etc. what features do people love and suggst that I likely don’t know of. Id love to hit the ground running as I dive into the beautiful world of arch.
Hyprland on archlinux Hyprland on archlinuxu/oussama_mn•7 days agoHyprland on archlinuxQUESTIONI've installed archlinux gnome, and I want to install Hyprland on arch and i dont want to configure it from the beginning (I mean I need just something for startupthen ill make my changes) so can u suggest any Dotfiles  pls and Ty
Sound on my Chromebook Sound on my Chromebooku/Competitive_Ant_1301•17 days agoSound on my ChromebookSUPPORTI recently installed Arch to my Chromebook bc why not, but i havent been able to get any sound to work via the internal speakers.Sound with stuff like USB/Bluetooth headphones works.I have a Chromebook 11A G8.Please let me know if you need anymore info regarding my system, or wtv else.Thanks in advance!
ryzen ai 395 capped to 70w ryzen ai 395 capped to 70wu/EdgarEggcar•9 days agoryzen ai 395 capped to 70wSUPPORTI just bought an Asus rog flow z13 with the ryzen ai max 395+. Performance is really good and it works amazingly on Linux. The problem is that on windows I get 80w on the performance mode and up to 93w on manual mode. But on Linux I cant get over 65-70w, tried with all possible configurations:Default kernel, zen and g14 asus kernelPower profiles daemon, cpu power and asus tog controlRyzenadj and asusctl In ryzen adj for example I cant make it change to any tdp but after 1-2 minutes goes back to 65w, its the stamp tdp which is limiting. I know over 65w the chip is not as efficient, but going from 65w to 93w changes my borderlands 4 gameplay from 50fps to 60fps for example, and as my main device I really apreciate that change in performance. Any idea whats is limiting me to that tdp?
Kernel gone Kernel goneu/Affectionate_Dot4424•6 days agoKernel goneSUPPORTEvery time I fully update the arch it will sure break something Is it normal ?   i have to chroot which itself is time consuming I use it with hyperland+Hyde themes . I really love the arch I don't want to switch, and going back to windows is a nightmare. I have been using arch for almost 258 days with 5 installations in 2 SDDs on my desktop and laptop . I started using Linux with Ubuntu but i didn't like it after using the arch  i switched to omarachy I didn't like it either. I loved using i3 and hyprland . So it would be very helpful if the community could help me not to destroy the kernel. During the full update it just destroyed itself  again and again i can't work with this environment.
Davinci Resolve problems. Davinci Resolve problems.u/Jack02134x•14 days agoDavinci Resolve problems.SUPPORTSo I want Davinci resolve in arch linux therefore i went to aur and i saw that there are package named davinci-resolve and davinci-resolve-studio. so i tried installing them. My pc almost had a heart attack compiling ~24000 objects...so i went to their website and downloaded it from there.But it is still not working. Davinci resolve just refused to open.In the shorcut it created i saw,Path=/opt/resolve/ Exec=/opt/resolve/bin/resolve %uso i tried it in terminal. It went like the following:jack@kuro ~> /opt/resolve/bin/resolve  /opt/resolve/bin/resolve: symbol lookup error: /usr/lib/libpango-1.0.so.0: undefined symbol: g_once_init_leave_pointerso umm... what should i do? i know the terminal command did not have a path specified so maybe that is the issue but it ain't opening through app... idk please help
Planning Arch Linux install before nuking Windows: filesystems, partitioning and mounting advice Planning Arch Linux install before nuking Windows: filesystems, partitioning and mounting adviceu/hollowdragonx•11 days agoPlanning Arch Linux install before nuking Windows: filesystems, partitioning and mounting adviceQUESTIONHey everyone!I'm planning to install Arch Linux as mymaindesktop PCafter not needing Windows anymore for specific-software (I virtualized it on a macbook in UTM just to get ride of it hahaha). But before completely nuking Windows, I'd like some advice and hear your experience/opinions/recommendations aboutfilesystems,disk partitioning, andmount strategies.I already did some research through the wiki, youtube and forums but I am still confused on the best approach for my use case, so that's why decided to ask your experience about it to avoid or being to lazy or being to overkilling.The hardware specs are:Ryzen 9 7950X (16c,32t)Nvidia RTX 308064 GB DDR5 RAMStorage:1 TB NVME SSD12 TB HDD (7200RPM)Use cases are:Gaming(practically only steam with proton non-anticheat), Virtualization, CTF/HackTheBox, General Software Development, some Network & Pentesting Labing (through VM environment for practice and learning) and well, General Purpose.My concerns are:Filesystem: I am not fully sure which filesystems make the most sense for each disk. I was thinking on usingbftrsin the SSD (root will be there) just for snapshoting so I am able to rollback, andXFSorext4for the HDD (90% of the games and media will be there).My main concern with the filesystem is theGaminguse case.Partitioning & Mounting:With my amount of RAM, is worth create a SWAP partition or swapfile?About/homemounting, should it be all on the HDD or mount it on the SSD and just mount specific folders to the HDD (Desktop,Downloads,Games,VMs,Projects, etc...)I know that I can just put everything in the SSD, use the well-tested ext4 and use the HDD only when I see that I need it. But I want to do the best approach possible, not just to be lazy but neither overkilling. I'd like your opinions and useful references that can help me to decide. (Yes, I already read the wiki, but it seems that I did it too much so I ended up with a mess in my brain).
System won’t boot because snapshots have filled disk System won’t boot because snapshots have filled disku/Adesiii•17 days agoSystem won’t boot because snapshots have filled diskSUPPORTHi, I’m really stuck with this one.So my ssd(240gb) with arch Linux on it started showing as full not too long ago and I did a lot of digging with a lot of tools and commands to find out what was taking up space as I don’t really have anything on it(I have a separate drive for documents/games/etc), anyway everything came back with mixed answers. Some tools showed it as only being 19gb full and others were telling me it had 3tb of data on it, which makes no sense as it’s only 240gb. After a bit of research I think I came across something to do with the swap file or something, saying that it usually shows more than the disk capacity and to think nothing of it.So fast forward to yesterday and my pc starts acting really slow and I couldn’t even open a terminal or anything. I tried to restart my pc and now it won’t even boot, I’m assuming because the disk is full.I’m really stuck on what to do with this one as nothing will give me a clear answer as to what’s taking up all the space, the only thing I think it might be is snapshots, as booting into a live environment I can see the size of the snapshots and each one shows about 18gb. I can’t figure out how to delete these snapshots though as everything online says how to do it from the os itself and not a live usb.If anyone can help me with this it would be massively appreciated as I really don’t feel like wiping the pc and starting fresh but it’s an option if I can’t fix it soon.
Do a software uses a shell command? Do a software uses a shell command?u/ecccc3•6 days agoDo a software uses a shell command?QUESTIONI'm on PC Arch Linux KDE.Since I'm banned from the officialhttps://bbs.archlinux.org/because I got angry to an admin who kidded me to not registered me tohttps://gitlab.archlinux.org, I try here (for banneds, isn't it?).E.g. the video game Zaz creates the folder /home/username/.zaz , do Zaz uses the shell command mkdir /usr/bin/mkdir ? Or is it implemented in Zaz ?
Arch on MacBook Air M3? Arch on MacBook Air M3?u/voodooflame_•7 days agoArch on MacBook Air M3?QUESTIONIs there realistically a good way to get Arch on my MacBook Air M3? I use my laptop for work and Mac OS is just so bloated and feels slow compared to my desktop which runs arch. Ideally I still want to be able to use all the hardware with minimal to no compatibility issues.
[Guide] Setting up TMC (Rust CLI) with IntelliJ IDEA on Arch Linux [Guide] Setting up TMC (Rust CLI) with IntelliJ IDEA on Arch Linuxu/orcaxa•17 days ago[Guide] Setting up TMC (Rust CLI) with IntelliJ IDEA on Arch LinuxNOTEWORTHYQuick guide for running TMC using the Rust CLI together with IntelliJ IDEA on Arch Linux.(NOTE: If your package manager has IntelliJ, then this guide works for almost all distros.)Covers installation, basic configuration, and how to use IntelliJ with projects managed by the TMC CLI.(NOTE: If your package manager have intellij then this guide works for almost all distros.)1. Install IntelliJ IDEA (and dependencies)Install IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition on Arch using pacman (use your distro’s package manager if not on Arch):sudo pacman -S intellij-idea-community-editionMake sure all dependencies are installed as well, since they are required for Java/Maven projects.2. Install TMC CLI (Rust version)Theold TMC CLI does not work anymore, but it is still available via yay, so avoid installing it.The current Rust version is available via flatpak, but if you want to avoid flatpak, use the official install script:curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rage/tmc-cli-rust/main/scripts/install.sh | bash -s x86_64 linuxRepository:https://github.com/rage/tmc-cli-rust3. Set up TMC CLIFirst, log in to TMC:tmc loginYou’ll be asked to choose:Organization (e.g. MOOC)Course (e.g. Java Programming I)After that, the course exercises will be downloaded automatically to:~/.local/share/tmc/tmc_cli_rust/mooc-java-programming-i/4. Open the project in IntelliJ IDEAOpen IntelliJ IDEAOpen the course directory from the path aboveWhen prompted:Import Maven projects → acceptSelect JDK → choose the bundled JDK (Java 21)5. Submitting exercisesAfter finishing an exercise:Open a terminalMake sure you are inside the correct exercise directory, for example: ~/.local/share/tmc/tmc_cli_rust/mooc-java-programming-i/part01-Part01_10.StorySubmit the exercise: tmc submitWait for the results, then refresh the exercise page on the MOOC site.[Guide] Setting up TMC (Rust CLI) with IntelliJ IDEA on Arch LinuxQuick guide for running TMC using the Rust CLI together with IntelliJ IDEA on Arch Linux.Wait for the results, then refresh the exercise page on the MOOC site.Note:If you seebash: No: command not foundevery time you open a shell, it’s because the first line in~/.local/share/tmc-autocomplete/tmc.bashcontains plain text (No Auto Updates) that Bash tries to execute as a command.Open the file andremove the first lineto fix the issue.
Is installing Arch on the new gaming laptop a good idea? Is installing Arch on the new gaming laptop a good idea?u/Miserable_Window_409•18 days agoIs installing Arch on the new gaming laptop a good idea?QUESTIONAs the title suggests, I have an ASUS TUF Gaming F16 (FX608LM) laptop equipped with an Intel Ultra 7 255HX processor and an RTX 5060 GPU. I’ve been running Arch Linux from an external SSD for some time, and now I’d like to properly install Arch on the internal drive of the laptop.
Using phone as a temporary mouse? Using phone as a temporary mouse?u/danyuri86•24 days agoUsing phone as a temporary mouse?QUESTIONHi, so my mouse broke. I'm wondering if theres a way to use my pixel 9 phone as a mouse until new one arrives. I'm on the desktop and can open and do basic things with just keyboard, but no idea if it's possible to use the phone as a mouse. Appreciate any help
Recommendations on what ThinkPad? Recommendations on what ThinkPad?u/Far_Primary_5321•26 days agoRecommendations on what ThinkPad?QUESTIONHey! i have been using endevourOS for ~2 years now and am wanting to upgrade both my laptop and to actual arch. I was wanting to go the ThinkPad route due to them generaly being well documented to install arch on.I want something with 16gb (or upgradeable) ram and just be faster than my current laptop (Fastfetch at the bottom) I also was wanting something with a fingerprint sensor and/or the room in the chassis to put a smart card reader inside or something. im not super fond of touchscreens though. Im sorry if this is a little out of the scope for this subreddit i just figured this would be the best place to ask```zsh./o.                   aydenq@ayden./sssso-                 ------------`:osssssss+-               OS: EndeavourOS x86_64`:+sssssssssso/.             Host: Vivobook Go E1504GA_E1504GA (1.0)`-/ossssssssssssso/.           Kernel: Linux 6.18.4-arch1-1`-/+sssssssssssssssso+:`         Uptime: 12 hours, 30 mins`-:/+sssssssssssssssssso+/.        Packages: 2280 (pacman), 7 (flatpak-system), 25 (flatp)`.://osssssssssssssssssssso++-       Shell: zsh 5.9.://+ssssssssssssssssssssssso++:      Display (CMN15F5): 1920x1080 in 16", 60 Hz [Built-in].:///ossssssssssssssssssssssssso++:     DE: KDE Plasma 6.5.4`:////ssssssssssssssssssssssssssso+++.    WM: KWin (Wayland)`-////+ssssssssssssssssssssssssssso++++-    WM Theme: Breeze`..-+oosssssssssssssssssssssssso+++++/`    Theme: Breeze (Dark) [Qt], Breeze-Dark [GTK2], Breeze ]./++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++/:.      Icons: breeze-dark [Qt], breeze-dark [GTK2/3/4]`:::::::::::::::::::::::::------``        Font: Noto Sans (10pt) [Qt], Noto Sans (10pt) [GTK2/3/]Cursor: breeze (24px)Terminal: ghostty 1.2.3-arch2Terminal Font: JetBrainsMono Nerd Font (10.5pt)CPU: Intel(R) Core(TM) i3-N305 (8) @ 3.80 GHzGPU: Intel UHD Graphics @ 1.25 GHz [Integrated]Memory: 4.01 GiB / 7.42 GiB (54%)Swap: 0 B / 8.00 GiB (0%)Disk (/): 122.50 GiB / 231.60 GiB (53%) - ext4Local IP (wlan0):10.0.0.107/24Battery (X160535): 53% (1 hour, 25 mins remaining) [Di]Locale: en_US.UTF-8```
Fan Speed Peaks Until Shutdown Fan Speed Peaks Until Shutdownu/clocksmasher•27 days agoFan Speed Peaks Until ShutdownSUPPORTI have a Dell G15 5155, which has both AMD and Nvidia chipsets on it. I'm on KDE Plasma Wayland, and every time I boot into my laptop, the fan speed ramps up and keeps going until I shut it off. I did a little research, and I've been informed that Plasma is keeping the fan speed high instead of idling. I've tried to force Plasma to let go of the Nvidia chipset to no avail. What else can I try?
Yet another installer tool! Focused on BTRFS with Snapper Rollback support out of the box. Yet another installer tool! Focused on BTRFS with Snapper Rollback support out of the box.[deleted]•17 days agoYet another installer tool! Focused on BTRFS with Snapper Rollback support out of the box.SUPPORTSup everyone.Was an arch user for some time before i moved to nixos. Anyway, I made my own installer tool because archinstall lacked btrfs support with luks and some extra things out of the box at the time of development...so I made my own.There's probably much better ways to implement some of the things I did, but thought I'd share in case somebody found it interesing and before it became abandonware LOL.The tool basically provides a TUI with dialog that helps the user install arch on whatever disk setup they wish with the followinjg guiding principles.Provide a installer with BTRFS support.Provide out of the box snapper-rollback support.Provide tool installer out of the box.Here's the link:https://github.com/SpanishSyntax/ArcherCheers.
Why does everything on this sub have 0 upvotes Why does everything on this sub have 0 upvotesu/Elixivity6366•6 days agoWhy does everything on this sub have 0 upvotesQUESTIONIs someone out here just downvoting every post they see
So uh, how do I fix this? So uh, how do I fix this?u/Competitive_Ant_1301•17 days agoSo uh, how do I fix this?SUPPORT | SOLVEDLoading Linux linux ... error: f3/fahelp.c:find_ file:260:file /vmlinuz-inux' not found. Loading initial ramdisk ... error: loade/i386/inux.c.gwub cmd initmd:1082:you need to load the kernel first.  Press any key to continue...Just happened out of nowhere.
BlackArch vs Arch Linux for learning Linux + cybersecurity? BlackArch vs Arch Linux for learning Linux + cybersecurity?u/Dizzy-Item-7123•6 days agoBlackArch vs Arch Linux for learning Linux + cybersecurity?QUESTIONI want to learn Linux deeply (how it works, configuration, internals) and I’m also interested in cybersecurity and ethical hacking. Should I start with vanilla Arch Linux and add tools as I learn, or go straight to BlackArch? Which is better for long-term learning, especially as a beginner?
I am a complete newbie inheriting my sister's old laptop tomorrow I am a complete newbie inheriting my sister's old laptop tomorrowu/Affectionate-Way3909•17 days agoI am a complete newbie inheriting my sister's old laptop tomorrowQUESTIONI convinced my sister to give me her old laptop and I am kinda excited about installing arch on it, and also ricing it after.But I have NO IDEA what I am doing.I know linux, as I am a computer science graduate, but almost all of my linux experience comes from virtual machines. I have never succeeded in installing linux on my own.I tried dual booting Kali on my own laptop but I failed horribly, in fact, the 100 gb partition I made for Kali is still unallocated there. Out of frustration I went back to windows and just debloated it as much as I could, but deep down my heart still yearns for that penguin.No Mint, No Kali, No Ubuntu.I wanna go all in.I wanna say "I use arch, btw" too.I will follow instructions on how to install arch from a video or something. But my main question is this.Are there any languages I need to know in order to rice my desktop?What are DEs?And what should I choose if I want full aesthetics, whilst having top tier performance?Most of the content I have gone through so far on youtube is just people saying things that I am not familiar with at all.
Help] Docker Desktop on Arch Linux failing with "qemu: process terminated unexpectedly" on Intel i9-14900HK Help] Docker Desktop on Arch Linux failing with "qemu: process terminated unexpectedly" on Intel i9-14900HKu/stvr_lord•18 days agoHelp] Docker Desktop on Arch Linux failing with "qemu: process terminated unexpectedly" on Intel i9-14900HKQUESTIONHelp] Docker Desktop on Arch Linux failing with "qemu: process terminated unexpectedly" on Intel i9-14900HKr/docker•18 days agoHelp] Docker Desktop on Arch Linux failing with "qemu: process terminated unexpectedly" on Intel i9-14900HKHi everyone,I'm struggling to get Docker Desktop working on my MSI laptop running Arch Linux. My specs are:CPU: Intel Core i9-14900HK (14th Gen)GPU: NVIDIA RTX 4060 Laptop GPURAM: 32GBThe Issue:Every time I try to run a container (even a simple hello-wor 1d or open-webui), it fails immediately. When I check the logs or run it via CLI, I get this error:qemu: process terminated unexpectedly: signal: aborted (core dumped)What's confusing:1.I am on an x86_64 host trying to run amd64 containers, so there should be no cross-platform emulation. However, since Docker Desktop on Linux runs inside a VM, it seems like the underlying QEMU process is crashing.2. VT-x/VT-d is enabled in BIOS.3. I've tried forcing --platform linux/amd64, but the result is the same.4. nvidia-smi works fine on the host, but I can't even get a container to stay alive long enough to check GPU passthrough.My Theory:Is this related to the Intel 14th Gen hybrid architecture (P-cores/E-cores)? I've read that some older QEMU versions used by Docker Desktop can't handle the core scheduling on these new chips, leading to a SIGABRT.Questions:Has anyone found a workaround for Docker Desktop's VM crashing on high-end Intel 13th/14th Gen CPUs in Arch?Are there specific binfmt_misc or kvm settings I should tweak to stop QEMU from aborting?Should I give up on Docker Desktop and switch to native Docker Engine, or is there a way to make the GUI version stable?Thanks in advance for any advice23comments
Archwiki Archwikiu/Curious-Concentrat5•7 days agoArchwikiQUESTIONI just wanted to know that the method written in archwiki is manual or arch install script ?Note: I am new in linux and only tried zorin os
GitHub - Ewwii-sh/ewwii: An eww rewrite that is powerful, flexible, and extensible. GitHub - Ewwii-sh/ewwii: An eww rewrite that is powerful, flexible, and extensible.u/ThinkTourist8076•18 days agoGitHub - Ewwii-sh/ewwii: An eww rewrite that is powerful, flexible, and extensible.SHAREhttps://github.com/Ewwii-sh/ewwii
Tool to send notes to archlinux from iPhone? Tool to send notes to archlinux from iPhone?u/Ldarieut•26 days agoTool to send notes to archlinux from iPhone?QUESTIONAs a rather old timer, I find myself constantly copy pasting links to Reddit posts or GitHub repo, or blog pages etc… to an email to myself so I can use the content on my archlinux desktop.I think it’s not very efficient and cumbersome.There has to be a better way, is it?
Security and encryption help Security and encryption help[deleted]•10 days agoSecurity and encryption helpQUESTION(Newbie) I installed Arch the other day and i realized that i never encrypted my partitions or something, i just followed the installation guide and nailed it (more or less).Can someone please tell me where in the wiki to read in order for me to learn how to make my system more secure?Also, i would appreciate links thay maybe you guys think would help me, thanks.
How to merge 2 monitors into 1? How to merge 2 monitors into 1?u/KILLER_OF_HADEZ•18 days agoHow to merge 2 monitors into 1?SUPPORTI have 2 monitors which are 1920x1080 each. I dont want to just extend them. What i want is when i open an application it should span across both monitors
How do I change LockScreen Wallpaper How do I change LockScreen Wallpaperu/Bay_Aslan09•7 days agoHow do I change LockScreen WallpaperSUPPORTI use KDE and sddm for arch idk if its different. So basicly, I can change the desktop wallpaper, I changed the screen that pops up when I open the pc (I think its called login screen idk) but I couldn't figure out how do I change  the lock screen wallpaper. FYI: I talk about when you press Win+L and locks the pc. Does anyone can change it?
[Pipewire/Wireplumber] Streaming audio from phone with bad quality [Pipewire/Wireplumber] Streaming audio from phone with bad qualityu/PracticalAd6966•19 days ago[Pipewire/Wireplumber] Streaming audio from phone with bad qualitySUPPORTSo I found this feature that allows to stream audio from android device through bluetooth and it`s amazing. But the level of stuttering audio makes it totally unusable. I`mnot using arch on VM, I am using it on home PC. My phone is placed on same desk as my PC. Did anyone confronted with that?
Is there a detailed btrfs+UEFI guide I can follow or archinstall is the way? Is there a detailed btrfs+UEFI guide I can follow or archinstall is the way?u/visagedemort•7 days agoIs there a detailed btrfs+UEFI guide I can follow or archinstall is the way?QUESTIONHello everyone!Not to waste your time, I decided to approach my first arch installation through the ArchWiki to setup a btrfs+UEFI system as I want to use Snapper or Timeshift, while dual booting windows too, but I have to say I did get quite confused and something was not done correctly at the end of the installation (either something regarding the mounting or something I am not sure of).I found multiple btrfs+UEFI guides but as I am not experienced yet, I am not sure which I should trust or not, so looking forward to your opinions but also if it would be better to stick to archinstall instead of manually doing everything.Thank you very much in advance!
Arch Linux Isn’t “Hard” Anymore. So Why Do People Still Bounce Off It? Arch Linux Isn’t “Hard” Anymore. So Why Do People Still Bounce Off It?u/BigHomieCed_•18 days agoArch Linux Isn’t “Hard” Anymore. So Why Do People Still Bounce Off It?FLUFFArch Linux gets described as difficult, elitist, or only for people who enjoy suffering. But in 2026, that explanation feels outdated. The tooling is better, the documentation is excellent, install paths are clearer than ever, and the ecosystem is stable if you understand what you’re doing. Yet people still install Arch, break it within weeks, and walk away frustrated.I’m starting to think the real barrier isn’t technical difficulty, but mindset. Arch doesn’t try to protect you from yourself, abstract decisions away, or enforce a particular workflow. It assumes you want to understand your system, maintain it deliberately, and accept responsibility when something changes. That’s not harder computing, it’s more honest computing.What I appreciate most about Arch is that it exposes cause and effect. When something breaks, it’s almost always explainable. When something works well, it’s because you built it that way. There’s no mystery layer quietly undoing your choices. That design philosophy feels increasingly rare in an era of “it just works” until it suddenly doesn’t.I’m curious how others who’ve stuck with Arch see this. Do you think Arch is still a learning distro, or has it quietly become a long-term daily driver for people who value clarity over convenience? And what do you think actually filters out users now, lack of skill or lack of interest in understanding their own system?you are not alone, you know. who you are and who you are to become will always be with you. ~Q
Discord Crashing when connect a voice channel using Bluetooth. Discord Crashing when connect a voice channel using Bluetooth.u/mswindowsisuseless•19 days agoDiscord Crashing when connect a voice channel using Bluetooth.SUPPORTDiscord Crashing when connect a voice channel using Bluetooth.r/discordapp•19 days agoDiscord Crashing when connect a voice channel using Bluetooth.Guys, It's basically was described in the title.The crash happens just when using a headset Bluetooth and connect at voice channel.I'm using a Discord Linux client desktop. Is there someone experiencing the same?---Edit: Guys the problem not happening directly with Discord app and in Gnome DE. when you try to use the microphone of the Headsets the login session crashes.1upvote·10comments
How to add fallback feature How to add fallback featureu/strange_conflict_x•18 days agoHow to add fallback featureSUPPORTguys I've been using arch sometime now, i want to know how to add fallback feature to arch like one fedora where if new update breaks something u can fallback to prev one. I've got an option where installing both linux & linux-lts alongside with it, Is there any other option?
Jumped Ship Jumped Shipu/StaceFace336•1 mo. agoJumped ShipSHAREHey everyone! I've been a Windows user since the 90s. I don't mind AI as a tool, as I do use it for my work in very specific ways.. but I go there to an app or specific website to use it when I choose. There's something about Microsoft's corporate AI forcing itself down my throat coming later this year that just doesn't sit well with me. They're also making it harder and harder to have a local account in Windows. I didn't use a local account, but it seemed shady to remove the option.Anyways, one pro of having a PC for me has always been.. it's mine, my build, my setup, I build it how I want. It feels like Microsoft really wants to take that away, with these AI PCs, blah blah blah. So.. I figured jumping to Arch was the biggest leap I could probably make to reclaim some degree of ownership. So, here I am! Got everything set up. I'll be using this for web development and Steam, mostly. Everything is super snappy and feels really nice.Looking forward to being part of the community and reclaiming some computing agency, so to speak!
last thing stopping me from switching last thing stopping me from switchingu/badgeminer•18 days agolast thing stopping me from switchingSUPPORTI want to switch to linux, HOWEVER the only thing stopping me from switching is one noteis there any way to run one note on linux that works offline?
YouTube default volume problem on Firefox YouTube default volume problem on Firefoxu/Morty_Smith_B10•19 days agoYouTube default volume problem on FirefoxSUPPORTHey guys I have this problem with Firefox whenever I play video on Youtube the volume on Firefox changes to a random value, like it is almost around 70%The volume changes in the application volumes I mean like Firefox its self volumeand whenever I try to pause the video or go forward or backward also the volume return to the default random value that Firefox thinks it is the true valueSome videos get 100% volume but others don't.but I want it to be 100% all the time.I am using pipewire and KDE Plasma on Wayland.anyone knows what is the solution?
arch + grub+ btrfs + luks times out on boot waiting for /dev/mapper/archlinux arch + grub+ btrfs + luks times out on boot waiting for /dev/mapper/archlinuxu/WildeBlackTiger•26 days agoarch + grub+ btrfs + luks times out on boot waiting for /dev/mapper/archlinuxSUPPORTHi, does somebody know how to solve this? my mkinitramfs modules and hooks are correct (encrypt after keyboard before filesystem) fstab is listing the uuid of the uncrypted root partition with right subvolume and grub is booting my grub_cmdline_linux is cryptdevice=UUID="myUUID":archlinux root=/dev/mapper/archlinux rootfstype=btrfs rootflags=subvol=/@ (@ is my root subvolume)edit changed : to = where i wrote my post wrong
2nd day trying to install Arch 2nd day trying to install Archu/OtherWatercress9631•26 days ago2nd day trying to install ArchSUPPORT | SOLVEDFinally the desktop shows after redoing the config a few times and getting plenty of emergency modesNow it boots up but there's literally nothing inside 🥲I don't think i missed anything from the wiki but since i only got a blank KDE Plasma desktop with just the time and select your username and password means i did something wrongaaaaaaaaaa
Por algum motivo meu pc esquenta MUITO menos agora no Linux. Por algum motivo meu pc esquenta MUITO menos agora no Linux.u/Artistic-Exit469•18 days agoPor algum motivo meu pc esquenta MUITO menos agora no Linux.DISCUSSIONMeu pc é Ryzen 5500 , RX 6600 LE, 16GB RAM (DUAL) , eu jogo games considerado meio pesados como cyberpunk , marvel rivals e etc, e meu pc esquentava algo esperado de jogos assim porem quando mudei para linux jogando mesmo jogos meu pc só começa esquenta muito tempo de jogatina. só algo curioso que notei.  com vocês ocorreu o mesmo?
Ayuda con tarjeta Nvidia Geforce Mx130 Ayuda con tarjeta Nvidia Geforce Mx130u/Sad-Counter2588•18 days agoAyuda con tarjeta Nvidia Geforce Mx130QUESTIONBueno directo al grano, tengo una laptop con una gpu nvidia Geforce Mx130 y la verdad que habia instalado otras distros y normal funciono, ahora quiero meterme de lleno a arch, la cuestiom es que estoy en duda por que paquete instalar para los drivers de nvidia si el driver propietario nvidia-open, o el aur nvidia-580xx-dkms, se que mi gpu es de arquitectura Maxwell y entonces instale el aur pero no paso nada no lo reconocio, nose si me equivoque de paquete o me falto algo, si es asi alguien que me ayude 🙏
TLP profile TLP profileu/Anon_Legi0n•28 days agoTLP profileQUESTIONI have the following configs set in/etc/tlp.confwhich reflects when I runtlp-stat -c/etc/tlp.conf L0195: CPU_ENERGY_PERF_POLICY_ON_BAT="power" /etc/tlp.conf L0250: PLATFORM_PROFILE_ON_BAT="low-power"However, when I am on battery and checktlp-stat -sI notice that the profile isbalanced/BAT+++ TLP Status tlp            = enabled, last run: 03:28:09 PM, 24 sec(s) ago tlp-rdw        = enabled tlp-pd         = enabled, running Power profile  = balanced/BAT Power source   = batteryMy question is, are my configs being ignored or wrong for some reason? Shouldn't "Power profile" be "power saving" because of the configs I set? Or is "Power profile" intlp-stat -sreferencing something other than the configs I previously mentioned?
Hyprland: GPU usage spikes when moving mouse (Intel iGPU) Hyprland: GPU usage spikes when moving mouse (Intel iGPU)u/TerribleStretch3749•1 mo. agoHyprland: GPU usage spikes when moving mouse (Intel iGPU)QUESTIONRecently my GPU usage spikes ~10–20% just from moving the mouse, and apps run ~40 FPS while GPU is near max.
udev - Power Profile Switcher udev - Power Profile Switcheru/Axl0_fr•22 days agoudev - Power Profile SwitcherSUPPORT | SOLVEDI have recently made a pretty nifty udev rule that automatically switches power profiles. I did it through udev because it was the most battery efficient way of doing what it does, or so I found.ACTION=="change", SUBSYSTEM=="power_supply", ENV{POWER_SUPPLY_TYPE}=="Battery", ENV{POWER_SUPPLY_STATUS}=="Charging", ENV{POWER_SUPPLY_CAPACITY}=="[0-4]*", RUN+="/usr/bin/powerprofilesctl set balanced" ACTION=="change", SUBSYSTEM=="power_supply", ENV{POWER_SUPPLY_TYPE}=="Battery", ENV{POWER_SUPPLY_STATUS}=="Charging", ENV{POWER_SUPPLY_CAPACITY}=="[5-9]*", RUN+="/usr/bin/powerprofilesctl set performance" ACTION=="change", SUBSYSTEM=="power_supply", ENV{POWER_SUPPLY_TYPE}=="Battery", ENV{POWER_SUPPLY_STATUS}=="Discharging", ENV{POWER_SUPPLY_CAPACITY}=="[0-4]*", RUN+="/usr/bin/powerprofilesctl set power-saver" ACTION=="change", SUBSYSTEM=="power_supply", ENV{POWER_SUPPLY_TYPE}=="Battery", ENV{POWER_SUPPLY_STATUS}=="Discharging", ENV{POWER_SUPPLY_CAPACITY}=="[5-9]*", RUN+="/usr/bin/powerprofilesctl set balanced"The only negative is that it only switches profiles when there is a change in charging/power status. I would also love it to switch automatically when my battery passes from 50% to 49%, even without a charging status change.As far as I know, this isn't possible through udev, as the program is focused on hardware, and battery percentage monitoring is mostly software.I'm now left wondering, what's the most battery efficient way of switching according to battery percentage, without needing a charging status change? I don't want to do something as crude as a bash script that checks every five minutes, there's got to be some better way.
How do I know if a question posted is stupid or not? How do I know if a question posted is stupid or not?u/Excellent_Tone_2126•7 days agoHow do I know if a question posted is stupid or not?QUESTIONLast post of a question I asked became a fluff post even though I actually needed an answer For people asking what was the question, it was about wether using AI for doing the manual installation would teach me or not
No 4K netflix on linux No 4K netflix on linuxu/sunnyca22•18 days agoNo 4K netflix on linuxDISCUSSIONI recently discovered that linux cannot play 4K netflix videos. What are some other technical limitations like this in linux? That makes feel that you are getting an unfinished product with linux!
I built a Linux app to control Razer Blade laptops - fan curves, power profiles, RGB, battery health - no kernel modules needed! I built a Linux app to control Razer Blade laptops - fan curves, power profiles, RGB, battery health - no kernel modules needed!u/EuropeanPepe•8 days agoI built a Linux app to control Razer Blade laptops - fan curves, power profiles, RGB, battery health - no kernel modules needed!SHAREI built a Linux app to control Razer Blade laptops - fan curves, power profiles, RGB, battery health - no kernel modules needed!r/razer•8 days agoI built a Linux app to control Razer Blade laptops - fan curves, power profiles, RGB, battery health - no kernel modules needed!Hey everyone! 👋I've been working onRazer Control Revived- a Linux userspace tool for Razer Blade laptops. If you've ever been frustrated trying to get proper fan/power control on your Razer laptop in Linux, this might help!What it doesFan Control- Auto mode or set specific RPM (no more jet engine sounds!)Power Profiles- Balanced, Gaming, Creator, Silent, or CustomCPU/GPU Boost- Fine-tune performance levelsBattery Health Optimizer- Limit charge to 50-80% to extend battery lifespanLogo LED- Off, On, or BreathingKeyboard RGB- Brightness and effects (Static, Wave, Breathing, Spectrum)Modern GTK4 GUI- With separate AC/Battery profiles that auto-switchNo DKMS/kernel modules required!Pure userspace via hidraw.ScreenshotsaboveDownloadsGitHub ReleasesFedora/RHEL:sudo dnf install ./razercontrol-0.2.0-1.fc43.x86_64.rpmUbuntu/Debian/Pop-OS: .deb package in releases you can install it via GUI.Other distros:AppImage or tarball (daemon needs system install, GUI is portable)AppImage you can basically launch it with one click :)NixOS FlakeSupported modelsBlade 14/15/16/17, Blade Pro, Blade Stealth, Razer Book 13, and the newBlade 16 2025. Full list on GitHub.KDE usersThere's also aKDE Plasma 6 widgetfor quick panel access!This started as a fork of the abandoned razer-laptop-control project. I've added the GUI, new device support, and packaging.Would love feedback, bug reports, or PRs! If you have a Razer laptop model I haven't tested, let me know if it works.GitHub:https://github.com/encomjp/razer-control-revived46upvotes·16comments
Persistente GPGME error during Arch installation Persistente GPGME error during Arch installationu/Extension_Upstairs_1•8 days agoPersistente GPGME error during Arch installationSUPPORTI am trying to get install the Arch via archinstall. Tried about 10 times already, but always get the same GPGME error. Already tried Secure and no secure boot on the BIOS, 2 different ISO files formatting my usb drive and SATA drive (where I want Arch to be installed).Also a lot of trouble shooting like, Reseting Gnupg, Manual Key Update, Database Wipe, Mirror list, Force Sync, System Clock, Security Overrride, Even with SigLevel = Never, the archinstall script continues to fail with the same error: "GPGME error: No data, failed to synchronize all databases (invalid or corrupted database (PGP signatur))"The first times that I tried installing, I was using ethernet, the last time I tried with Wifi, but did not disconnect the ethernet cable. I'm hoping it's something really stupid that I am forgetting or doing work.My personal guess being a noob, is that my internet via ethernet cable for some reason was not working properly and when I tried Wifi I did some other thing wrong. When on wifi I was able to run the fastfetch, but only tried that, this one time. And then I when to sleep.Can some one help? I hoping to get the answer so when I come back from work I have a "god run" and finally give some attention to my wife.
What terminal do u prefer and why? What terminal do u prefer and why?u/Aissur_morf_i•18 days agoWhat terminal do u prefer and why?QUESTIONWhat terminal do u prefer and why?r/linuxquestions•18 days agoWhat terminal do u prefer and why?Hello guys, Im trying to choose terminal for my workflow, so its ur chance to talk about ur favorite terminal emulator and help someone like me to choose their one!36upvotes·114comments
Learning material about uwsm and systemd slices? Learning material about uwsm and systemd slices?u/logannc11•14 days agoLearning material about uwsm and systemd slices?QUESTIONI'm trying to better understand, concretely, what uwsm does, why I should care, and what some of the options mean.I get that it wraps applications in systemd units and puts them into one of three systemd slices (app-graphical.slice, background-graphical.slice, session-graphical.slice).However, I do not understand, in practice,Why should I care it is wrapped in a systemd unit? (I have seen vague references to "stability", "prevents crashes", but I do not understand what circumstance it helps me in.)What are the differences between these slices?
Steam only launching games when started via terminal with "steam --reset" command Steam only launching games when started via terminal with "steam --reset" commandu/Random_RedditUser123•1 mo. agoSteam only launching games when started via terminal with "steam --reset" commandQUESTIONBasically what the title says. I configured PRIME following the arch wiki, steam worked normally and games could launch using both iGPU (amd radeon) and the dedicated GPU (NVIDIA GeForce Rtx 5060) and it worked fine for a day, but now its broken and steam can only launch games when I run it using steam --reset". When I open steam this way, it can launch games on both GPUs but when I open it normally, the games crash immediately. I have tried to reinstall all needed packages but nothing fixed it so far.Any help is appreciated
Speaker and headphones play at the same time Speaker and headphones play at the same timeu/LucasTrever•23 days agoSpeaker and headphones play at the same timeSUPPORTHello,My laptop model is a Huawei Matebook D14 (2021). I run Linux 6.18.5-arch1-1. I have the i3-1115G4 processor, and the soundcard `essx8336`.When I plug in headphones into the aux port, my laptops speakers and the headphones will play the same audio. I want to be able to mute one or the other, or ideally have the speakers mute automatically when the headphones are connected.This happens whether or not I use pulseaudio or pipewire. I have `sof-firmware` installed. I cannot find "Auto Mute-Mode" in my alsamixer options, it does not seem to be available in my `essx8336` soundcard. There have been issues reported for the `essx8336`, but only in the sense that the card does not get detected at all, not that it is detected and there are such problems.When I use alsamixer to change the volume on the speakers, both the speakers and the headphones change in volume.Here are some command outputs:```$ pactl list short sinks 0alsa_output.pci-0000_00_1f.3-platform-sof-essx8336.HiFi__HDMI3__sinkmodule-alsa-card.cs16le 2ch 48000HzSUSPENDED 1alsa_output.pci-0000_00_1f.3-platform-sof-essx8336.HiFi__HDMI2__sinkmodule-alsa-card.cs16le 2ch 48000HzSUSPENDED 2alsa_output.pci-0000_00_1f.3-platform-sof-essx8336.HiFi__HDMI1__sinkmodule-alsa-card.cs16le 2ch 48000HzSUSPENDED 8alsa_output.pci-0000_00_1f.3-platform-sof-essx8336.HiFi__Headphones__sinkmodule-alsa-card.cs16le 2ch 48000HzSUSPENDED   ```$ wpctl status PipeWire 'pipewire-0' [1.4.10, lucas@l, cookie:1518320659] └─ Clients: 32. xdg-desktop-portal-wlr              [1.4.10, lucas@l, pid:2137] 33. WirePlumber                         [1.4.10, lucas@l, pid:2149] 41. WirePlumber [export]                [1.4.10, lucas@l, pid:2149] 79. wpctl                               [1.4.10, lucas@l, pid:23201] Audio ├─ Devices: │      52. Tiger Lake-LP Smart Sound Technology Audio Controller [alsa] │ ├─ Sinks: │      53. Tiger Lake-LP Smart Sound Technology Audio Controller HDMI / DisplayPort 3 Output [vol: 1.00] │      54. Tiger Lake-LP Smart Sound Technology Audio Controller HDMI / DisplayPort 2 Output [vol: 1.00] │      55. Tiger Lake-LP Smart Sound Technology Audio Controller HDMI / DisplayPort 1 Output [vol: 1.00] │  *   56. Tiger Lake-LP Smart Sound Technology Audio Controller Headphones [vol: 0.13] │ ├─ Sources: │  *   57. Tiger Lake-LP Smart Sound Technology Audio Controller Digital Microphone [vol: 1.00] │      58. Tiger Lake-LP Smart Sound Technology Audio Controller Headset Microphone [vol: 1.00] │ ├─ Filters: │ └─ Streams: Video ├─ Devices: │      48. ov9734_techfront_camera             [v4l2] │      49. ov9734_techfront_camera             [v4l2] │ ├─ Sinks: │ ├─ Sources: │  *   50. ov9734_techfront_camera (V4L2) │ ├─ Filters: │ └─ Streams: Settings └─ Default Configured Devices: 0. Audio/Sink    bluez_output.E5_5A_01_B5_FA_50.1I saw athttps://askubuntu.com/a/276179that I could try modifying `/etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf` (which did not exist for me before I created it), and addalias snd-card-0 snd-hda-intel   options snd-hda-intel model=dell-m4-1 enable_msi=1but I was not able to adjust that for my machine.It seems to me that for some reason my system cannot differentiate between the two sinks, and puts headphones and speaker into one.I would appreciate any help.EDIT: I just found this repo which might help, I will try this as soon as possible and report back:https://github.com/Smoren/huawei-ubuntu-sound-fixEDIT: The above huavei-ubuntu-sound-fix partially works: Now when I plug in the headphones, the headphones and some speaker still plays simultaneously - But the speakers seem to reduce in volume OR it could be that the internal speaker switches to another, quieter one. If anyone has a command to check for which speaker is active, and to mute the quieter speaker, this would already be sufficient.EDIT: I also realized that for some reason, on my stereo headphones, only the right side plays audio in this configuration, if that changes anything
Getting this problem with lightdm Getting this problem with lightdmu/No_Technician2662•19 days agoGetting this problem with lightdmSUPPORTIn my i3 based set-up, I used to use lightdm as my display manager, but recently I would see a blank screen instead of lightdm login screen, so I would have to just use tty to restart the lightdm and then everything would work just fine.After a little bit of a quest on the internet, I figured that it all boiled down to some race condition. So, I tried to put the lightdm on sleep for 2 seconds, on booting. And the problem was solved.But it feels kinda slow and annoying. At this point I'm even looking for a better option as a Display Manager, but I'm also wondering if the new DM is gonna cause the same issue in my system.If you think there's a different issue which I'm too blind to see, please enlighten me.Also, which DMs would you go for, given that you use i3.
Anyone else agree that archinstall is bad for new users? Anyone else agree that archinstall is bad for new users?u/KnightFallVader2•18 days agoAnyone else agree that archinstall is bad for new users?QUESTIONOn paper, archinstall gives people an easy way to install Arch Linux without needing to look at the wiki for 2 hours getting everything working. But the purpose of doing a manual installation, especially if you're new to Arch or haven't used it before, is so you can understand how your system works, and therefore you'll know how to fix any issues that may occur. But if you just use archinstall, you don't get as much idea on system maintenance, so you won't be able to fix anything that goes wrong.
help me please help me pleaseu/ShockAggressive1149•18 days agohelp me pleaseSUPPORThey so like 2-3 days ago i tried installing arch linux on my pc and dual boot it with windows, i have a hdd with windows and an ssd which had fedora linux on it, i had shrunken the disc volume so that i wouldn’t format my whole ssd, now i tried to install arch linux instead of fedora because i wanted to distro hop, now with the help of chat gpt i kept fucking up my pc to the point where i’m now only seeing the motherboards splashscreen, i can’t get into bios, i had disabled the CSM setting in it because gpt told me to and now nothing works, i had tried to unplug the psu cable and hold the power button for 15 second but that did nothing aswell, now im very confused and don’t know what to do. I’d like to keep my windows install and i don’t want to format any discs, can anyone help?
My computer keeps crashing My computer keeps crashingu/AceGirlAsh•9 days agoMy computer keeps crashingSUPPORTI'm using a radeon 5700xt GPU, and when trying tobplay some games (until we fall, deadlock) my graphics sometimes crashes. This leaves the screen showing green and red static covering everything and nothing of substance renders.
Problem with installing Arch Problem with installing Archu/Green_Ad_9891•19 days agoProblem with installing ArchSUPPORTHello guys, so it's my first experience to install Arch. But I used Fedora before 3 month, so I have a experience of linux using. But when I started to install after choosing Arch Installl medium my left side was like scarembled screen where the commands and writing. How can I fixed
HDMI audio / Digital Surround 5.1 jumping between outputs HDMI audio / Digital Surround 5.1 jumping between outputsu/ptpeace•18 days agoHDMI audio / Digital Surround 5.1 jumping between outputsSUPPORTArch LinuxKDE PlasmaNVIDIA GTX 1080 (proprietary driver)HDMI audio to AV receiver (5.1 surround)Default PipeWire setupIssue:After reinstalling, HDMI audio device mapping is inconsistent.GPU exposes 4 HDMI audio outputsDigital Surround 5.1 profile keeps appearing on different HDMI outputscan't remember previously what HDMI but right now HDMI has Digital Surround 5.1my AV RECEIVER  moves to different HDMI 2/3/4HDMI numbers and available profiles change after reboot or reconnecting the receiverBefore the reinstall, this same setup worked fine ...
Network manager cant detect wifi (basically my system) Network manager cant detect wifi (basically my system)u/OtherWatercress9631•17 days agoNetwork manager cant detect wifi (basically my system)SUPPORT | SOLVEDHello sorry for asking againSomehow my networkmanager can't detect any wifi with an error (i previously connected to my wifi a few days prior before it breaks)The error states: My desktop cannot connect to the wifi said no agents were available for this request.I have both iwd and networkmanager installed. I thought iwd was conflicting with networkmanager so i deleted the entire package. Rebooted it and still no luck.I checked networkmanager status it wasLoaded ......... /NetworkManager.service: enabled; preset: disabledActive: active (running)I checked this config file /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf and there is nothing (no weird stuff like lines that stops the connection etc)I cant find exactly what does all of that mean but i assume it is disabled. I ran systemctl enable, start, and checked the status. Still preset: disabled and no wifi detected. I rebooted, still no luck. I am very lost.My wifi card is Intel corporation tiger lake pch cvni wifi [8086:43f0]Intel corporation tiger lake-h serioal I0 I2C controllerKernel driver in use is intel-lpssI don't know about all of the firmware packages needed but i installed networkmanager and the entirety of plasma. My documentation is not finished yet and my notes when i was installing got ripped and thrown into the trash can (thinking it was scrap paper)My kernel is linuxI assume the card is active from the systemctl status (preset: disabled i am still unsure on what that means)rfkill no such file or directoryI cant lie, from the systemctl status, everything is working and should work :) why it isnt working hahaI saw a line in the status written /usr/bin/NetworkManager.service -no--daemon. I searched about it and apparently it is normal tooSorry and thank you in advance
I am a noob and mouse in my arch stopped working after late upgrade 😭😭 I am a noob and mouse in my arch stopped working after late upgrade 😭😭u/Neat_Bodybuilder_913•19 days agoI am a noob and mouse in my arch stopped working after late upgrade 😭😭SUPPORTI’m losing my mind, need help.• Arch Linux• GNOME on Wayland (also COSMIC now??)• Wireless keyboard + mouse sharing one USB receiver• Keyboard works fine• Mouse completely dead / cursor stuck bottom-right What happened:• I didn’t update for ~2 weeks• Then did a big update (like 4GB+, didn’t check what exactly)• After update, GDM wouldn’t accept my password even though it was correct• After several reboots that issue randomly went away• Then mouse stopped working completelySymptoms:• Cursor stays in lower right corner• No movement, no fading• Happens in GNOME and COSMIC• Wayland only (I don’t want Xorg)• BIOS doesn’t support mouse input so can’t test thereWhat I tried (and probably messed things up):• Switched display managers (GDM → SDDM)• Broke GNOME somehow, booted into COSMIC instead• GNOME customizations all gone• System feels bloated now• Thought Wayland was the problem — probably not• Tried replacing mouse battery (didn’t help)Debug info:• USB receiver is detected • Keyboard events work• Mouse does NOT show up as pointer• libinput only sees keyboard, not mouse• Both devices share same USB• No mouse movement events at allCurrent state:• Mouse still dead• Keyboard works• I installed linux-lts and trying to make it default via GRUB• Trying to figure out if this is a kernel HID regression or my hardware dyingQuestion: • Is this a known issue with mainline kernel + wireless combo receivers?• Anything specific I should check before reinstalling everything?
Arch resolving dependencies... Arch resolving dependencies...u/MammothManagement867•19 days agoArch resolving dependencies...QUESTIONI just installed arch following Bread on Penguins guide, once I successfully completed that guide I then tried to follow The Linux Cast guide to installing hyperland. My problem comes at me right away when I try installing the first few packages I need to set this up I am met with "Resolving dependencies..." then underneath that  "There are 2 providers available for jack:" The two options are 1) jack2 2) pipewire-jack.   No matter what I select installing the packages I need to get started just always fails the download process of these packages (hypryland rofi-wayland kitty nwg-displays hyprcursor waybar). I understand Hyperland isn't exactly for beginners but its what I decided I wanted to work with. That or sway on wayland. I am absolutely a newbie to this all. I am seeking an answer on how to proceed forward or advice on if I should just go with a different tiling window system. Any help is much appreciated! love how a lot of people in linux are so straightforward.
It wouldn't hurt to have a cute mascot for Arch by now It wouldn't hurt to have a cute mascot for Arch by nowu/MoonlightLoop•19 days agoIt wouldn't hurt to have a cute mascot for Arch by nowDISCUSSIONJust a random thought.Ok, you can stone me now...
Problem with caelestia Problem with caelestiau/Vyperrocks•19 days agoProblem with caelestiaSUPPORTSo I installed Arch on my laptop and although I'm not a pro I won't say I'm a new guy either and I'm currently on my 2nd install since the first install randomly went black screen on me.After my second install with caelestia dotfiles I have encountered the same black screen issue and this isn't some wallpaper issue, no the entire UI of caelestia is non existent to me I'm basically just using the keybinds I remember off head along with terminal everything works fine apart for the UI please help
How do I control the RGB of my laptop keyboard on arch ?? How do I control the RGB of my laptop keyboard on arch ??u/Acceptable-Ruin-1535•8 days agoHow do I control the RGB of my laptop keyboard on arch ??QUESTIONFor context, I have a Lenovo LOQ 15 laptop which comes with an RGB keyboard, is there anyway to fully use/customise the lighting using a software in arch. SignalRGB doesn't detect the hardware.
I wrote a pacman hook to patch NVIDIA mining cards (P106) I wrote a pacman hook to patch NVIDIA mining cards (P106)u/ragecooky•19 days agoI wrote a pacman hook to patch NVIDIA mining cards (P106)SHAREhttps://aur.archlinux.org/packages/nvidia-patch-hookInspired byhttps://github.com/dartraiden/NVIDIA-patcherThis pacman hook automatically patches the NVIDIA dkms driver.It works with NVIDIA drivers before 590, tested on my P106-100 and P106-90.Hope you enjoy gaming on mining cards!Note : After installing this package you need to reinstall or update your nvidia dkms package !!!
Is there a way to install things on a different drive/partition? Is there a way to install things on a different drive/partition?u/Traditional-Data913•26 days agoIs there a way to install things on a different drive/partition?QUESTIONI'm sorry. This might be a stupid question. I'm not even sure how to formulate it.I like to make backups of my system using Rescuezilla. For that reason I try to keep my system size to a minimum since my storage for the backups isn't much.Now I want to install an AI map generator for "Osu!". That requires me to install cuda and some more things. I have done so in a previous backup. After everything is done, it adds up to 15/20 gigs or so. And I don't want that on my main drive/partition. Is there a way I can install programs to another partition?Edit:Lots of options to choose from. symlinks, bindmounts, containers. I'll look more into them and pick one. Thank you all for the suggestions!
No WLAN device when setting up network? No WLAN device when setting up network?u/I_Am_Glow_Squid•19 days agoNo WLAN device when setting up network?SUPPORTI am attempting to install Arch Linux for the first time, and I am setting up network, but see no devices when I run [iwctl] and then [station list]. All it says is “Devices in station modeNo devices in station mode available”To clarify, I‘m using wireless internet.
kinda-archinstall project kinda-archinstall projectu/Ok-Cash-7244•17 days agokinda-archinstall projectDISCUSSIONEdit note2: Thana for the responses, some good community insight that I’m definitely gonna take into account. Some of yall need to get some pussy fr thoEdit note: I guess I wasn’t really clear on the point of this, it is NOT to install arch via automated script. It’s to centralise documentation and save configuration details in a plug and play format. It is for TEACHING granular installations based off preference + avoiding digging through SEO slop. Finding primary source material on literally anything gets harder by the day and if you can’t admit that you must be using a different internet 😂. archinstall sets you up for failure if you like to over configure every detail (like we all do)So I’ve always manually installed arch and never liked the archinstall script - it’s awesome but it kinda just sets people up to fail. They’re setting up something they don’t understandI had an idea for a more detailed guided install that is meant to be ran on your phone or in cage on the archinstall (only god knows why you’d do that), just spitballing and asking the community what they think I should add to my index before I really start structuring itIts main goal is to help people with edge cases, I know they can “rtfm” but search engines are so diluted with AI slop that verbose searches of kernel.com page headers still give AI slop.Here’s what I have so far:#### Partition Table Type- [ ] GPT (required for UEFI) ← **default, almost always**- [ ] MBR (legacy BIOS only)#### Partition Layout- [ ] Subvolumes (EFI + BTRFS or similar)- [ ] Standard (EFI + Root)- [ ] Standard + Swap partition- [ ] Standard + Separate /home- [ ] Custom (show fdisk reference, user decides)#### EFI Partition Size- [ ] 512 MB Typical- [ ] 1 GB (for multiple kernels/bootloaders)**default, recommended**- [ ] Custom (not reccomended and needs a warning)#### Swap Configuration- [ ] No swap- [ ] Swap partition (specify size)- [ ] Swap file (specify size)- [ ] Zram (compressed RAM swap) ← **modern recommendation**---### 2. FILESYSTEM#### Root Filesystem- [ ] ext4 (standard, stable)- [ ] BTRFS ← **enables subvolume/snapshot options**- [ ] XFS (performance-focused)- [ ] ZFS (advanced, requires extra setup)#### BTRFS Options (if BTRFS selected)**Subvolume Layout:**- [ ] Minimal (@ and @home only)- [ ] Recommended (@, @home, @snapshots, @var_log) ← **Phase 1 default**- [ ] Server (@, @var, @var_log, @srv)- [ ] Custom (define your own)**Mount Options:**- [ ] compress=zstd (enable compression) ← **recommended**- Compression level: [1-19, default 3]- [ ] noatime (performance, default on most setups)- [ ] space_cache=v2 ← **always recommended**- [ ] discard=async (TRIM for SSDs) ← **recommended for NVMe**- [ ] ssd (SSD optimizations) ← **auto-detected usually****Snapshot Configuration:**- [ ] Enable snapshots (snapper)- [ ] Automatic timeline snapshots- [ ] Pre/post pacman snapshots (snap-pac)- [ ] Bootable snapshots (grub-btrfs) ← **requires GRUB***** we need to add a submenu for snapshot frequency with descriptions per option of what they do! -michael---### 3. BOOTLOADER#### Bootloader Choice- [ ] GRUB2 ← **most compatible, supports BTRFS snapshots**- [ ] systemd-boot (simple, EFI only)- [ ] rEFInd (graphical, good for multi-boot)#### GRUB Options (if GRUB selected)- [ ] Install GRUB theme- Theme: [dropdown of popular themes]- [ ] Enable os-prober (detect other OS)- [ ] GRUB_TIMEOUT: [seconds, default 5]#### systemd-boot Options (if selected)- [ ] Auto-detect entries- [ ] Custom timeout: [seconds]---### 4. KERNEL#### Kernel Choice- [ ] linux (standard, follows latest stable)- [ ] linux-lts (long-term support, conservative)- [ ] linux-zen (desktop-optimized)- [ ] linux-hardened (security-focused)- [ ] linux-mainline (AUR, bleeding edge) ← **Phase 1 default**#### Mainline Kernel Options (if mainline selected)- [ ] Custom kernel name (localversion)- Name: [text field]- [ ] Customize built-in modules- [ ] amd_pstate=builtin- [ ] amdgpu=builtin- [ ] nvme=builtin- [ ] [expand with common options]- [ ] Custom .config modifications#### Fallback Kernel- [ ] Install fallback kernel- Fallback choice: [linux / linux-lts]#### Microcode- [ ] AMD microcode (amd-ucode) ← **auto-select based on CPU**- [ ] Intel microcode (intel-ucode)---***kernel configuration is complex and this section needs heavy research -michael### 5. PACMAN CONFIGURATION#### /etc/pacman.conf Options- [ ] Enable Color output ← **recommended**- [ ] ParallelDownloads: [1-10, default 5] ← **recommended**- [ ] VerbosePkgLists ← **recommended**- [ ] ILoveCandy (pacman easter egg)- [ ] CheckSpace ← **default on**#### Signature Verification- [ ] Default (Required for repo packages)- [ ] Relaxed (TrustedOnly)- [ ] Strict (all signatures required)---### 6. REPOSITORIES#### Official Repositories- [ ] core ← **always enabled**- [ ] extra ← **always enabled**- [ ] multilib (32-bit support)- Needed for: Steam, Wine, some proprietary software#### Testing Repositories (advanced)- [ ] core-testing- [ ] extra-testing- [ ] multilib-testing#### Custom Repositories- [ ] Add custom repository- Name: [text]- Server: [URL]- SigLevel: [Optional/Required]**Common custom repos to suggest:**- chaotic-aur (prebuilt AUR packages)- archlinuxcn- [others]---### 7. LOCALIZATION#### Timezone- Region: [dropdown]- City: [dropdown]- Or: [text field for manual entry like "America/Chicago"]#### LocalePrimary locale: [en_US.UTF-8 default]- [ ] Generate additional locales- [multi-select list]#### Console Keymap- [ ] us ← **default**- [ ] [dropdown of common keymaps]#### Console Font- [ ] Default- [ ] Terminus (better for HiDPI)- [ ] [other options]---### 8. NETWORK#### Network Manager- [ ] NetworkManager ← **recommended for desktops**- [ ] systemd-networkd (minimal, server-friendly)- [ ] iwd (WiFi-only, minimal)- [ ] dhcpcd (simple DHCP)- [ ] None (configure manually later)#### Hostname- Hostname: [text field]#### Additional Network Packages- [ ] iwd (modern WiFi backend)- [ ] wpa_supplicant (legacy WiFi)- [ ] wireless_tools- [ ] bluez (Bluetooth)- [ ] openssh[]-add seperate subvolume? *reccomeneded* (btrfs)---### 9. USERS & SECURITY#### Root Account- [ ] Set root password- [ ] Lock root account (use sudo only)#### User Accounts- Number of users: [1-5]- For each user:- Username: [text]- [ ] Add to wheel group (sudo access)- [ ] Create home directory ← **default on**- [ ] Set shell: [bash/zsh/fish]- Additional groups: [multi-select: audio, video, storage, etc.]#### Sudo Configuration- [ ] Install sudo ← **default**- [ ] Uncomment wheel group in sudoers- [ ] Install doas (alternative to sudo)---### 10. HARDWARE#### CPU Vendor- [ ] AMD- [ ] Zen 1/2/3/4 architecture- [ ] Strix Point / AI series ← **Phase 1**- [ ] Intel- [ ] Generation: [dropdown]#### GPU- [ ] AMD (integrated)- [ ] AMD (discrete)- [ ] Intel (integrated)- [ ] NVIDIA- [ ] nvidia (proprietary)- [ ] nvidia-open- [ ] nouveau (open source)- [ ] None / Server#### Form Factor- [ ] Desktop- [ ] Laptop- Vendor: [HP / Lenovo / Dell / ASUS / Framework / Other]- [ ] Install laptop-specific packages- [ ] tlp (power management)- [ ] acpi / acpid- [ ] brightnessctl---### 11. MKINITCPIO#### Hooks ConfigurationShow default hooks with explanation, allow customization:Default: `base udev autodetect microcode modconf kms keyboard keymap consolefont block filesystems fsck`BTRFS adds: `btrfs` (if not using btrfs module)Encryption adds: `encrypt` or `sd-encrypt`#### Compression- [ ] zstd ← **recommended**- [ ] gzip- [ ] xz- [ ] lz4 (fastest)---### 12. ESSENTIAL PACKAGES#### Base Packages (always)- base- linux-firmware#### Development Tools- [ ] base-devel ← **needed for AUR, recommended**- [ ] git ← **recommended**#### Text Editors- [ ] nano- [ ] vim- [ ] neovim- [ ] None (use cat/echo only, hardcore mode)#### Filesystem Utilities- [ ] btrfs-progs (required for BTRFS)- [ ] dosfstools (FAT/EFI filesystem)- [ ] e2fsprogs (ext4)- [ ] xfsprogs (XFS)- [ ] ntfs-3g (Windows NTFS support)#### Network Utilities- [ ] networkmanager- [ ] iwd- [ ] dhcpcd- [ ] openssh- [ ] wget / curl#### Compression- [ ] zip / unzip- [ ] p7zip- [ ] unrar#### System Utilities- [ ] man-db (manual pages)- [ ] man-pages- [ ] texinfo- [ ] htop / btop- [ ] fastfetch / neofetch---### 13. DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENTS> **Note:** This is optional, can be done post-install. Include for convenience.#### Languages- [ ] Python- [ ] python- [ ] python-pip- [ ] python-virtualenv- [ ] Rust- [ ] rustup- [ ] Go- [ ] go- [ ] Node.js- [ ] nodejs- [ ] npm- [ ] C/C++- [ ] gcc- [ ] clang- [ ] cmake- [ ] make- [ ] Java- [ ] jdk-openjdk- [ ] jre-openjdk---### 14. FSTAB OPTIONS#### Mount Options by Filesystem**General:**- [ ] defaults- [ ] noatime ← **recommended for SSD**- [ ] relatime**EFI Partition:**- Default: `fstab defaults,noatime 0 2`- [ ] umask options**BTRFS Subvolumes:**- Show recommended mount options per subvolume- Allow customization**Swap:**- [ ] Set swappiness: [0-100, default 60]- [ ] Create sysctl config for swappiness---## Configuration Export FormatAll selected options are saved as JSON:```json{"disk": {"partitionTable": "gpt","layout": "standard","efiSize": "512M","swap": "zram"},"filesystem": {"type": "btrfs","subvolumes": ["@", "@home", "@snapshots", "@var_log"],"mountOptions": {"compress": "zstd:3","noatime": true,"space_cache": "v2","discard": "async"},"snapshots": {"enabled": true,"snapper": true,"snapPac": true,"grubBtrfs": true}},"bootloader": {"type": "grub2","theme": null,"timeout": 5},// ... etc}```---## Priorities-Security and encryption research~I care about control, I’d send Microsoft all of my data in a gift box for my windows 7 back. Definitely going down this rabbit hole-Layering the GUI architecture so through runtime the app will only contain what people actually wan’t~decide on a simple “beginner, advanced, terrorism” mode style or just a straight checkbox preface people seem split on this-A minimal alternative for the guys in the comments only interested in the databasing and recreation not the beginner education. (Lmk suggestions, databasing is my speciality I’d gladly add complexity to my main plan for countless repetitive tasks, Archtism)-larpinstall that downloads 4000 packages with 8 file managers, package manager keyring is alternated by string based off of the scores of the most recent lakers game
Fallout New Vegas only recognizing iGPU Fallout New Vegas only recognizing iGPUu/Random_RedditUser123•19 days agoFallout New Vegas only recognizing iGPUQUESTIONI have returned to this subreddit with yet another GPU related issue:When I start Fallout New Vegas (even with the "Start using dedicated GPU" function from the switcheroo controlls packet or wgatever its called) the Fallout New Vegas lists my iGPU (amd radeon smth) as the only available GPU. The PRIME offloading works on other apps (I think at least, though I dont know how to check whether a specific app is using the nvidia gpu), but I cant seem to make fnv use it. Now, its not really an issue, the game runs fine on the iGPU, but I'd still like to know why I cant force it to use the NVIDIA rtx 5060Is this an issue with arch/PRIME or with the game (since yk fallout new vegas is known to be quite funky in terms of bugs and stuff)?
Arch Linux drivers for Archer TX20U plus? Arch Linux drivers for Archer TX20U plus?u/Financial-Buy6153•8 days agoArch Linux drivers for Archer TX20U plus?SUPPORTArch Linux drivers for Archer TX20U plus?r/TpLink•8 days agoArch Linux drivers for Archer TX20U plus?I cannot find any.2upvotes·1comment
Opening web browser Opening web browseru/Imgunnacrumb•19 days agoOpening web browserQUESTIONI will use runelite as an example, I am attempting to login to sync my runelite profile through an email account. But the browser it spawned is a completely fresh profile or instance with none of my extensions, etc. making it difficult to use a passkey, I can’t find anything on this. Does anyone know how to have everything open my normal default browser when requested? It is set as the default browser.
Mouse occasionally gets stuck focused on one window Mouse occasionally gets stuck focused on one windowu/werisos•19 days agoMouse occasionally gets stuck focused on one windowSUPPORT | SOLVEDHey y'all,I downloaded arch with KDE Plasma as my DE a bit ago and I've been stuck on this problem that I can't find any solution for, nor have I found anyone that has the same issue.after a few minutes of using one window my mouse becomes loyal to it, no matter what I do my mouse won't interact with anything else other than the window, every time this has happened I've had to open a TTY and bud in kwin_wayland --replace which gives me a temporary solution, but after a few minutes it's stuck again.Please do and try and help me fore I am stumped.
Can't login with Plasma Wayland Can't login with Plasma Waylandu/rednoobguy26•19 days agoCan't login with Plasma WaylandSUPPORTI updated my stuff and messed things up. :( I'd like help getting KDE Plasma (Wayland) again. Running kwin_wayland just gives me this error: kwin_wayland: symbol lookup error: /usr/lib/libKF6Svg.so.6: undefined symbol: _ZN12KColorScheme13frameContrastERK28QExplicitlySharedDataPointerI13KSharedConfigEAny help or pointers would be appreciated, thanks.
Every boot after the first one has low resolution unless desktop is disconnected from power supply and connectd again when booting Every boot after the first one has low resolution unless desktop is disconnected from power supply and connectd again when bootingu/nao_te_digo•23 days agoEvery boot after the first one has low resolution unless desktop is disconnected from power supply and connectd again when bootingSUPPORTRecently i built a desktop and installed arch Linux there.Cpu: Ryzen 9 9900xMotherboard: gigabyte b650 ax x v2, with the F38 bios version, secure boot disabled, fast boot disabledGpu: nonemonitor: ToshibaIf i disconnect the desktop from the power supply and leave it for some time when i it turn on it the resolution is set at 1920x1200However if i reboot the desktop or shut down and turn it on the resolution is set at 640×480, it also seems that the bios and grub don't support such resolution, however grub is still accepting user input.I am using kde( plasma package) with Wayland and sddm, other packages i installed are:amd-ucode, efibootmgr, lib32-mesa, Linux-firmware, linux-headers, mesa, vulkan-radeon[i was able to find someone with the exact problem and similar hardware so it probably has something to do with this igpu] (https://forum.level1techs.com/t/problems-with-monitor-going-power-save-on-amdgpu/220715)in a boot with the correct edid i copied it to/usr/lib/firmware/binand updatedgrub# GRUB boot loader configuration  GRUB_DEFAULT=0  GRUB_TIMEOUT=40  GRUB_DISTRIBUTOR="Arch"  GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="loglevel=3 quiet     drm.edid_firmware=edid/edid.bin "  GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=""  # Preload both GPT and MBR modules so that they are not missed  GRUB_PRELOAD_MODULES="part_gpt part_msdos"  # Uncomment to enable booting from LUKS encrypted devices  #GRUB_ENABLE_CRYPTODISK=y  # Set to 'countdown' or 'hidden' to change timeout behavior,  # press ESC key to display menu.  GRUB_TIMEOUT_STYLE=menu  # Uncomment to use basic console  GRUB_TERMINAL_INPUT=console  # Uncomment to disable graphical terminal  #GRUB_TERMINAL_OUTPUT=console  # The resolution used on graphical terminal  # note that you can use only modes which your graphic card supports via VBE  # you can see them in real GRUB with the command `videoinfo'  GRUB_GFXMODE=auto  # Uncomment to allow the kernel use the same resolution used by grub  GRUB_GFXPAYLOAD_LINUX=keep  # Uncomment if you want GRUB to pass to the Linux kernel the old parameter  # format "root=/dev/xxx" instead of "root=/dev/disk/by-uuid/xxx"  #GRUB_DISABLE_LINUX_UUID=true  # Uncomment to disable generation of recovery mode menu entries  GRUB_DISABLE_RECOVERY=true  # Uncomment and set to the desired menu colors.  Used  by normal and wallpaper  # modes only.  Entries specified as foreground/background.  #GRUB_COLOR_NORMAL="light-blue/black"  #GRUB_COLOR_HIGHLIGHT="light-cyan/blue"  # Uncomment one of them for the gfx desired, a image background or a gfxtheme  #GRUB_BACKGROUND="/path/to/wallpaper"  #GRUB_THEME="/path/to/gfxtheme"  # Uncomment to get a beep at GRUB start  #GRUB_INIT_TUNE="480 440 1"  # Uncomment to make GRUB remember the last selection. This requires  # setting 'GRUB_DEFAULT=saved' above.  #GRUB_SAVEDEFAULT=true  # Uncomment to disable submenus in boot menu  #GRUB_DISABLE_SUBMENU=y  # Probing for other operating systems is disabled for security reasons. Read  # documentation on GRUB_DISABLE_OS_PROBER, if still want to enable this  \# functionality install os-prober and uncomment to detect and include other  \# operating systems.  \#GRUB\_DISABLE\_OS\_PROBER=falseon the same boot i didjournalctl -b -p 4archlinux kernel: rust\_binder: Loaded Rust Binder.  archlinux kernel: integrity: Problem loading X.509 certificate -22  archlinux kernel: integrity: Problem loading X.509 certificate -22  archlinux kernel: amdgpu 0000:0f:00.0: \[drm\] \*ERROR\* EDID checksum invalid.  arch kernel: ACPI Warning: SystemIO range 0x0000000000000B00-0x0000000000000  B08 conflicts with OpRegion 0x0000000000000B00-0x0000000000000B0F (\\GSA1.SMBI) (20250807/utaddress-204)  arch kernel: Bluetooth: hci0: No support for \_PRR ACPI method  arch kernel: faux\_driver regulatory: Direct firmware load for regulatory.db   failed with error -2andlspci -ki getthisi tried restarting and runningjournalctl -b -p 4which givesarchlinux kernel: rust\_binder: Loaded Rust Binder.  archlinux kernel: integrity: Problem loading X.509 certificate -22  archlinux kernel: integrity: Problem loading X.509 certificate -22  archlinux kernel: amdgpu 0000:0f:00.0: \[drm\] \*ERROR\* EDID checksum invalid.  arch kernel: ACPI Warning: SystemIO range    0x0000000000000B00-0x0000000000000  B08 conflicts with OpRegion 0x0000000000000B00-0x0000000000000B0F (\\GSA1.SMBI) (20250807/utaddress-204)  arch kernel: Bluetooth: hci0: No support for _PRR ACPI method  arch kernel: faux_driver regulatory: Direct firmware load for regulatory.dbfailed with error -2runninglspci -ki getthisthe other person solved the issue by using a display port instead of hdmi, however my monitor does not allow display port
Is it possible to run KDE smoothly with Nvidia GPU? Is it possible to run KDE smoothly with Nvidia GPU?u/National_Guidance_34•19 days agoIs it possible to run KDE smoothly with Nvidia GPU?SUPPORTI really like KDE Plasma, but it's very lagging and annoying with Nvidia GPU. I have pretty good PC but If I open many windows and browser tabs, it become unusable. Stuttering, lagging etc. I tried to raise idle GPU clock, it helped a little, but still laggy asf. On hyprland everything seems OK. Someone had these problems too? How to make my KDE run smoothly?
Pulsar Xlite wired PXV321D not list in app web Pulsar Xlite wired PXV321D not list in app webu/xisnamh•8 days agoPulsar Xlite wired PXV321D not list in app webSUPPORTHi, I'm using Arch and I'm trying to open the web apphttps://bbb.pulsar.ggto configure my mouse, but no device appears in the pop-up window. I use vivaldi.I have this:lsusb = Bus 001 Device 007: ID 3710:1401 Pulsar Pulsar Xlite V3 Wiredcat /etc/udev/rules.d/55-mouse-pulsar.rules1 │ SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ATTR{idVendor}=="3710", ATTR{idProduct}=="1401", MODE="0666", GROUP="plugdev", TAG+="uaccess"2 │ SUBSYSTEM=="hidraw", ATTRS{idVendor}=="3710", ATTRS{idProduct}=="1401", MODE="0666", GROUP="plugdev", TAG+="uaccess"Can someone help me please? thanks!!
Why not Void? Why not Void?u/LowerTomatillo1260•19 days agoWhy not Void?DISCUSSIONI always admired Void for being a lightweight, simple and minimalistic rolling release distro. And I also have moved to it from Arch recently. The only things about it that I don't like are that: 1) it is not bleeding edge, 2) it has a poor wiki, and I guess, that is it. Isn't Void's XBPS better than Pacman in many aspects? So I want to know: why Arch over Void? Unless you have 8+ gigs of RAM and can tolerate systemd bloat.
cosmic appreciation post cosmic appreciation postu/Guthibcom•19 days agocosmic appreciation postSHAREcosmic appreciation postr/pop_os•19 days agocosmic appreciation postSo, a few days ago, I wanted to try something new, so I got rid of Gnome and installed KDE. To be honest, it wasn't a great experience. It felt like tons of different applications were glued and taped together. So, I tried out Cosmic. (I use Arch, by the way.)And Wow! Besides having half the amount of system packages installed compared to kde or gnome, it just feels like how a modern Linux desktop should. You can tell it was designed for modern technology, and since it's something completely new, there's no need to support all the old stuff that most other desktops wouldn't be "allowed" to get rid of.Some of my favorite parts that surprised me are:- Customization. Cosmic struck the perfect balance between Gnome and KDE. You can customize the panel and dock without an overwhelming amount of options. But the outstanding part is theming. If you didn't notice, take another look at the screenshot. The system monitor is a Libadwaita app. (everyone that tried theming adwaita apps before knows how big of an deal that is)- Community support: This desktop feels like the community and system76 are working as a close team. I was baffled to find out that third-party applets are installed as flatpaks from a flatpak remote managed by Cosmic.- Tiling: I never used it before because I don't like window managers (GOSH WHAT, THE OP IS AN ARCH USER BUT DOESN'T LIKE WM'S, HE GOES TO HELL) , and every Gnome tiling extension was never polished enough. But in these few hours of using Cosmic, I've grown to love it!Issues:- There are a few missing XDG desktop portals, such as the background and global shortcuts ones.- A few animations are missing, though the tiling ones are perfect.- My cursors goes big on some x11 apps- There are probably more issues that I haven't noticed yet.not a big deal and totally expected to have issues on a 1.0 releaseSo, yeah, I'm fascinated. I can never use Gnome or KDE again without noticing that they're built on top of old ideas and concepts. This desktop feels like the developers actually listened to the community's needs for a modern 2026 Linux desktop. Being able to install a classic "Windows-like" start menu or system monitor applet for example using Flatpaks in the Cosmic Store is totally impressive.Oh and side fact: I really like their videos about cosmic onyoutube55upvotes·13comments
Help with a dsdt file on systemd-boot Help with a dsdt file on systemd-bootu/root_120•24 days agoHelp with a dsdt file on systemd-bootSUPPORTHello everyone, I recently installed arch linux on an Aspire switch 10 sw5-012. One of the problems I found is that my brightness control doesn't work and it always stays on maximum. I found a dsdt file and I was wondering how can I implement it on my system while having systemd-boot
Arch not working on external ssd Arch not working on external ssdu/NoDimension6118•20 days agoArch not working on external ssdSUPPORTHi everyone, I’m stuck with an external-SSD boot issue and could use some guidance.I’m running a laptop with AMI UEFI firmware (BIOS F.07, 2025). Secure Boot is disabled and the system is set to pure UEFI mode.My internal NVMe drive has Windows and Kali installed and boots fine. I installed Arch Linux with Hyprland on an external USB SSD. The installation completes without errors.The problem is that the system refuses to boot Arch from the external SSD.What happens:On every boot, the firmware falls back to the internal NVMe and loads Kali’s GRUB.Even when I explicitly select “Arch” or the external device from the boot menu, it still ends up booting the internal disk.Usingefibootmgr, I only see Windows and Kali entries. An Arch entry only appears if I install GRUB to the internal EFI, which I want to avoid.There is a “USB Drive (UEFI)” entry, but it gets skipped as long as the internal NVMe has a valid bootloader.What I’ve already verified:Secure Boot is disabled and the platform is in setup mode (mokutil --sb-state).The external SSD is detected correctly (lsblkshows it assda).The external SSD has a valid EFI partition and containsEFI/BOOT/BOOTX64.EFI.I’ve tried installing GRUB both in removable mode and with a named EFI entry pointing to the external disk.At this point, it feels like the firmware is simply ignoring external USB EFI boot entries and silently falling back to the internal NVMe whenever it finds a valid bootloader there.Has anyone dealt with similar AMI UEFI behavior? Is there a reliable workaround for booting Linux from an external SSD on systems like this, without touching the internal EFI?Any help  would be appreciated.​#archlinux #arch #linux #help
Microphone problem on Asus Laptop Microphone problem on Asus Laptopu/SprayPleasant•8 days agoMicrophone problem on Asus LaptopSUPPORTHello, i switched from COS because mic didnt work at all (asus zephyrus g14 ga401q), then i switched to EOS, that sucked but microphone did work, now i switched to Arch thats really good, but i have the same problem as before, the mic doesnt work again Did anyone had this problem, how did you fix it?
Easy way to install Arch Linux? Easy way to install Arch Linux?u/DamageAffectionate21•19 days agoEasy way to install Arch Linux?QUESTIONHi, my question is if its possible to install Arch in easy way like...installation script?I tried to install with boot usb and guided from yt video. Everything goes fine but on the point when I wrote "archinstall" nothing happened. Some problem with ISO or idk. Maybe a good way for me will be Arch on WM to try it, learn things a stuff. Now I am on Linux Mint learning CLI terminal. Thanks a lot for answers guys:)
Help Arch Linux don't boot and the device shouts down Dell precision m4700 Help Arch Linux don't boot and the device shouts down Dell precision m4700u/NirKiro•19 days agoHelp Arch Linux don't boot and the device shouts down Dell precision m4700SUPPORThttps://www.reddit.com/r/Dell/comments/1qlykeb/help_arch_linux_dont_boot_and_the_device_shouts/
Problem with scaling & steam on hyprland arch linux Problem with scaling & steam on hyprland arch linuxu/Appropriate-Run2515•8 days agoProblem with scaling & steam on hyprland arch linuxSUPPORTI recently installed Hyprland on my Arch Linux laptop. I was previously using KDE plasma for a few years, but i wanted to try something different. Hyprland has been great for me so far and i have enjoyed customizing and using it. But there are a couple problems.. When i launch steam, the app is completely black, but if you hover over the menu bar at the top, the drop down menus appear? I have tried a few things to fix it, and i have been unable. I did try launching it with "PROTON_ENABLE_WAYLAND=1 steam", and it did temporarily fix my problem, but it is very hit and miss and I do not know how to make it launch using that command when opening steam via wofi. I also encountered another issue. In Discord, Steam & some other apps/games, the text was super blurry and looked low resolution even though i have a 2880x1800 display. I tried looking online and changing monitor & scaling in the config but nothing worked too well. It was either normal sized but blurry, or the text was super small. Also, when i was playing games, the max resolution i could set in the game's graphics settings were 1920x1200. I am new to hyprland and do not know how these things work. If i login to my KDE plasma session, all apps and scaling works fine. I do have xwayland installed. If anyone could help, i would appreciate it!
having some problems whit the keyboard but i'm realy not sure if its the keyboard or linux having some problems whit the keyboard but i'm realy not sure if its the keyboard or linuxu/Omer-faruk-TR•19 days agohaving some problems whit the keyboard but i'm realy not sure if its the keyboard or linuxQUESTIONso i have an rampage yoru mini pro and its stuck at mac mode after i reinstalled arch linux but it was still at windows mod after the install it just decided to swich to mac and get stuck there it has a Physical swicth for mac and win it doesnt do anything and i had this before when i installed arch to this laptop first time it just decided to do that again after sometime it swiched back to win and said "yeah im ok like this" and im realy stuck should i open up the keyboard and check the swich or its just linux saying f you
How to force arch to return to using nouveau and stop using vga mode ? How to force arch to return to using nouveau and stop using vga mode ?u/Taletad•20 days agoHow to force arch to return to using nouveau and stop using vga mode ?SUPPORT | SOLVEDEdit : Solved. For some reason the nvidia-utils package found its way on my system yesterday. I removed it and everything works fine nowTo preface, I am new to arch, but I am a long time linux userYesterday, I tried installing steam, (enabling multilib, downloading steam+ lib 32 pckgs etc…)Everything worked fineToday, arch booted in legacy VGA mode. Apparently that can happen when you pick the wrong steam drivers, so I Pacman -Runs steam, uninstalled all the multilib packages, removed multilib from pacman.confBut I am still booting in 640x480 VGA (tty or wayland) and can’t figure out how to get back to 1440pAny advice ?I do have an nvidia card, and installed the nouveau drivers as per the wiki’s directions during installation and everything was working fine up to that point
Were there networking changes in macvlan in January? Were there networking changes in macvlan in January?u/BlindTreeFrog•7 days agoWere there networking changes in macvlan in January?SUPPORTWere there any network changes in the mid January time frame that change how I need to set up a MAC VLAN for docker?    I know bridge-utils was deprecated and moved out ofextrabut I don't think I was using it for anything previously.As part of the debugging I've been redoing my entire docker compose config, but the macvlan set up is the same steps that I was doing previouslydocker network create -d macvlan --subnet 192.168.0.0/24 --ip-range 192.168.0.0/24  --gateway 192.168.0.1 --aux-address 'host=192.168.0.48'  --ipv6 --subnet=fd00:0000:f000::/64 --gateway=fd00:0000:f000::1 -o parent=enp5s0 -o macvlan_mode=bridge docker-external ip link add mvlan-docker link enp5s0  type macvlan  mode bridge   ip addr add 192.168.0.48/32 dev mvlan-docker ip link set mvlan-docker up ip route add 192.168.0.0/24 dev mvlan-docker ip link set enp5s0 promisc onTweaked slightly from the previous version; if nothing else, previously i put the macvlan on 192.168.1.0/24 and made sure dhcp range were kept separate.  Trying to keep the two separeted this time if i can.I can ping the aux address from the host, containers, and other machines on the network.   I can ping ip's in the macvlan from the host and in containers, but not from anywhere else on my networkDon't know if it's related, but I also can't get any mdns reflector to seem to work to punt packets into the container networks.   All of this is in attempt to get Home Assistant to talk to my Matter devices.The wiki has updates in Jan, but nothing that looks like it would relatehttps://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Systemd-networkdhttps://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Network_configurationNot immediately seeing anything on the arch site or mailing list, but maybe i'm looking in the wrong place.
Audio disconnects after sleep Audio disconnects after sleepu/isoGUI•1 mo. agoAudio disconnects after sleepQUESTIONHow do you guys prevent this from happening? I've seen a few ways. And I've tried adding "usbcore.autosuspend=-1" to disable it. But that didn't help with the audio interface issue.
Arch linux not seeing my GPU Arch linux not seeing my GPUu/Prudent-Importance29•25 days agoArch linux not seeing my GPUSUPPORTHi everyone. I installed arch linux with GNOME d.e. But now system cannot see my GPU (RTX 3050 integrated with Intel). I tried using another monitoring apps but still, it is not working. Can someone help ?this is what is shows on nvidia-smiMon Jan 19 03:33:19 2026+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+| NVIDIA-SMI 590.48.01 Driver Version: 590.48.01 CUDA Version: 13.1 |+-----------------------------------------+------------------------+----------------------+| GPU Name Persistence-M | Bus-Id Disp.A | Volatile Uncorr. ECC || Fan Temp Perf Pwr:Usage/Cap | Memory-Usage | GPU-Util Compute M. || | | MIG M. ||=========================================+========================+======================|| 0 NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3050 ... Off | 00000000:01:00.0 Off | N/A || N/A 48C P0 12W / 60W | 21MiB / 4096MiB | 0% Default || | | N/A |+-----------------------------------------+------------------------+----------------------++-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+| Processes: || GPU GI CI PID Type Process name GPU Memory || ID ID Usage ||=========================================================================================|| 0 N/A N/A 3129 C+G /usr/bin/gnome-software 3MiB || 0 N/A N/A 17740 C+G /usr/bin/kgx 3MiB |+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
I want to change Fedora I want to change Fedorau/Upset-Leopard-3410•20 days agoI want to change FedoraQUESTIONI want to change Fedorar/arch•20 days agoI want to change FedoraI've been using Fedora for a few months now and it's been causing some errors when installing packages, for example openh264. The problem is in my location, so I can't fix anything, only if using VPN every time I need to install something. Also, I don't like the app centre, I'm looking forward to a deeper dive into the terminal. I have already used Ubuntu and Mint some years ago, when I had a super old computer, that even couldn't load Windows Black Edition, so then I got an idea to use Linux instead of Windows. During this winter holidays, I have changed Win10 on my laptop to Fedora, it's really cool after Windows, but I want to try something else, cause I'm not like super good in Linux, I know much about it, but I used it for too little time to be a professional at it. I think Arch, Kali or Debian is something I'd install. What do you think? What's the best solution?15comments
Cant launch Steam even though it used to work Cant launch Steam even though it used to worku/Tux1•10 days agoCant launch Steam even though it used to workSUPPORTSteam used to run perfectly fine on my arch linux install under flatpak, but recently an update broke it so I decided to switch to a pacman install instead. Whenever I try to install it however, it ends up getting stuck in an infinite loop of trying to start, and never succeeding. Here's a list of log entries from one time I tried doing it:steam.sh[53317]: Running Steam on arch rolling 64-bit steam.sh[53317]: STEAM_RUNTIME is enabled automatically setup.sh[53439]: Steam runtime environment up-to-date! steam.sh[53317]: Log already open steam.sh[53317]: Steam client's requirements are satisfied CProcessEnvironmentManager is ready, 6 preallocated environment variables. [2026-01-28 18:05:15] Startup - updater built Jan 21 2026 17:12:15 [2026-01-28 18:05:15] Startup - Steam Client launched with: '/home/tux/.local/share/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam' '-srt-logger-opened' 01/28 18:05:15 minidumps folder is set to /tmp/dumps 01/28 18:05:15 Init: Installing breakpad exception handler for appid(steam)/version(1769025840)/tid(55184) Looks like steam didn't shutdown cleanly, scheduling immediate update check CProcessEnvironmentManager is ready, 6 preallocated environment variables. [2026-01-28 18:05:15] Loading cached metrics from disk (/home/tux/.local/share/Steam/package/steam_client_metrics.bin) [2026-01-28 18:05:15] Failed to load cached hosts file (File 'update_hosts_cached.vdf' not found), using defaults [2026-01-28 18:05:15] Using the following download hosts for Public, Realm steamglobal [2026-01-28 18:05:15] 1. https://client-update.steamstatic.com, /, Realm 'steamglobal', weight was 1, source = 'baked in' [2026-01-28 18:05:15] Checking for update on startup [2026-01-28 18:05:16] Checking for available updates... [2026-01-28 18:05:16] Downloading manifest: https://client-update.steamstatic.com/steam_client_ubuntu12 [2026-01-28 18:05:16] Manifest download: send request [2026-01-28 18:05:15] Process started with command-line: '/home/tux/.local/share/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam' '-child-update-ui' '-child-update-ui-socket' '8' '-srt-logger-opened' 01/28 18:05:16 minidumps folder is set to /tmp/dumps [2026-01-28 18:05:15] Using update UI: xwin 01/28 18:05:16 Init: Installing breakpad exception handler for appid(steam)/version(0)/tid(55214) [2026-01-28 18:05:16] Create window [2026-01-28 18:05:16] Manifest download: waiting for download to finish [2026-01-28 18:05:16] Manifest download: finished [2026-01-28 18:05:16] Download skipped: /steam_client_ubuntu12 version 1769025840, installed version 1769025840, existing pending version 0 [2026-01-28 18:05:16] Nothing to do [2026-01-28 18:05:16] Verifying installation... [2026-01-28 18:05:16] Verifying all executable checksums [2026-01-28 18:05:19] Set percent complete: 0 [2026-01-28 18:05:19] Set status message: Checking for available updates... [2026-01-28 18:05:19] Set percent complete: -1 [2026-01-28 18:05:19] Set percent complete: -1 [2026-01-28 18:05:19] Set status message: Verifying installation... [2026-01-28 18:05:19] Show window [2026-01-28 18:05:49] Verification complete UpdateUI: skip show logo [2026-01-28 18:05:49] Destroy window [2026-01-28 18:05:49] Shutdown  Steam logging initialized: directory: /home/tux/.local/share/Steam/logs  XRRGetOutputInfo Workaround: initialized with override: 0 real: 0xf620d370 XRRGetCrtcInfo Workaround: initialized with override: 0 real: 0xf620bcc0 01/28 18:05:51 minidumps folder is set to /tmp/dumps 01/28 18:05:51 Init: Installing breakpad exception handler for appid(steamsysinfo)/version(1769025840)/tid(56439) Running query: 1 - GpuTopology Response: gpu_topology {   gpus {     id: 1     name: "Intel(R) Arc(tm) B580 Graphics (BMG G21)"     vram_size_bytes: 12809404416     driver_id: k_EGpuDriverId_MesaIntel     driver_version_major: 25     driver_version_minor: 3     driver_version_patch: 4     luid: 0   }   default_gpu_id: 1 }  Exit code: 0 Saving response to: /tmp/steamBMaDAB - 66 bytes steamwebhelper.sh[56454]: Starting steamwebhelper under bootstrap steamrt steam runtime via: /home/tux/.local/share/Steam/steamrt64/pv-runtime/steam-runtime-steamrt/_v2-entry-point steamwebhelper.sh[56454]: Starting steamwebhelper with steamrt steam runtime at /home/tux/.local/share/Steam/steamrt64/pv-runtime/steam-runtime-steamrt/_v2-entry-point Steam Runtime Launch Service: starting steam-runtime-launcher-service Steam Runtime Launch Service: steam-runtime-launcher-service is running pid 56543 bus_name=com.steampowered.PressureVessel.LaunchAlongsideSteam Steam Runtime Launch Service: steam-runtime-launcher-service pid 56543 exited Steam Runtime Launch Service: starting steam-runtime-launcher-service Steam Runtime Launch Service: steam-runtime-launcher-service is running pid 56871 bus_name=com.steampowered.PressureVessel.LaunchAlongsideSteam Steam Runtime Launch Service: steam-runtime-launcher-service pid 56871 exited Steam Runtime Launch Service: starting steam-runtime-launcher-service Steam Runtime Launch Service: steam-runtime-launcher-service is running pid 57002 bus_name=com.steampowered.PressureVessel.LaunchAlongsideSteam Steam Runtime Launch Service: steam-runtime-launcher-service pid 57002 exited Steam Runtime Launch Service: starting steam-runtime-launcher-service Steam Runtime Launch Service: steam-runtime-launcher-service is running pid 57106 bus_name=com.steampowered.PressureVessel.LaunchAlongsideSteam Steam Runtime Launch Service: steam-runtime-launcher-service pid 57106 exited Steam Runtime Launch Service: starting steam-runtime-launcher-service Steam Runtime Launch Service: steam-runtime-launcher-service is running pid 57235 bus_name=com.steampowered.PressureVessel.LaunchAlongsideSteam Steam Runtime Launch Service: steam-runtime-launcher-service pid 57235 exited Steam Runtime Launch Service: starting steam-runtime-launcher-service Steam Runtime Launch Service: steam-runtime-launcher-service is running pid 57294 bus_name=com.steampowered.PressureVessel.LaunchAlongsideSteam Steam Runtime Launch Service: steam-runtime-launcher-service pid 57294 exited Steam Runtime Launch Service: starting steam-runtime-launcher-service Steam Runtime Launch Service: steam-runtime-launcher-service is running pid 57500 bus_name=com.steampowered.PressureVessel.LaunchAlongsideSteam exec ./steamwebhelper -nocrashdialog -lang=en_US -cachedir=/home/tux/.local/share/Steam/config/htmlcache -steampid=55184 -buildid=1769025840 -steamid=0 -logdir=/home/tux/.local/share/Steam/logs -uimode=7 -startcount=0 -steamuniverse=Public -realm=Global -clientui=/home/tux/.local/share/Steam/clientui -steampath=/home/tux/.local/share/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam -launcher=0 --valve-initial-threadpool-size=4 --valve-enable-site-isolation --enable-smooth-scrolling --password-store=basic --log-file=/home/tux/.local/share/Steam/logs/cef_log.txt --disable-quick-menu --disable-component-update --gaia-url=http://disabled.invalid --enable-features=PlatformHEVCDecoderSupport --disable-features=WinRetrieveSuggestionsOnlyOnDemand,SpareRendererForSitePerProcess,DcheckIsFatal,BlockPromptsIfIgnoredOften,ValveFFmpegAllowLowDelayHEVC Steam Runtime Launch Service: steam-runtime-launcher-service pid 57500 exited Steam Runtime Launch Service: starting steam-runtime-launcher-service Steam Runtime Launch Service: steam-runtime-launcher-service is running pid 57707 bus_name=com.steampowered.PressureVessel.LaunchAlongsideSteam Steam Runtime Launch Service: steam-runtime-launcher-service pid 57707 exited Steam Runtime Launch Service: starting steam-runtime-launcher-service Steam Runtime Launch Service: steam-runtime-launcher-service is running pid 57816 bus_name=com.steampowered.PressureVessel.LaunchAlongsideSteam Steam Runtime Launch Service: steam-runtime-launcher-service pid 57816 exited Steam Runtime Launch Service: starting steam-runtime-launcher-service Steam Runtime Launch Service: steam-runtime-launcher-service is running pid 57949 bus_name=com.steampowered.PressureVessel.LaunchAlongsideSteam steamwebhelper.sh[58102]: Starting steamwebhelper under bootstrap steamrt steam runtime via: /home/tux/.local/share/Steam/steamrt64/pv-runtime/steam-runtime-steamrt/_v2-entry-point steamwebhelper.sh[58102]: Starting steamwebhelper with steamrt steam runtime at /home/tux/.local/share/Steam/steamrt64/pv-runtime/steam-runtime-steamrt/_v2-entry-point reaping pid: 55214 -- steam exec ./steamwebhelper -nocrashdialog -lang=en_US -cachedir=/home/tux/.local/share/Steam/config/htmlcache -steampid=55184 -buildid=1769025840 -steamid=0 -logdir=/home/tux/.local/share/Steam/logs -uimode=7 -startcount=1 -steamuniverse=Public -realm=Global -clientui=/home/tux/.local/share/Steam/clientui -steampath=/home/tux/.local/share/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam -launcher=0 --valve-initial-threadpool-size=4 --valve-enable-site-isolation --enable-smooth-scrolling --password-store=basic --log-file=/home/tux/.local/share/Steam/logs/cef_log.txt --disable-quick-menu --disable-component-update --gaia-url=http://disabled.invalid --enable-features=PlatformHEVCDecoderSupport --disable-features=WinRetrieveSuggestionsOnlyOnDemand,SpareRendererForSitePerProcess,DcheckIsFatal,BlockPromptsIfIgnoredOften,ValveFFmpegAllowLowDelayHEVC steamwebhelper.sh[58821]: Starting steamwebhelper under bootstrap steamrt steam runtime via: /home/tux/.local/share/Steam/steamrt64/pv-runtime/steam-runtime-steamrt/_v2-entry-point steamwebhelper.sh[58821]: Starting steamwebhelper with steamrt steam runtime at /home/tux/.local/share/Steam/steamrt64/pv-runtime/steam-runtime-steamrt/_v2-entry-point exec ./steamwebhelper -nocrashdialog -lang=en_US -cachedir=/home/tux/.local/share/Steam/config/htmlcache -steampid=55184 -buildid=1769025840 -steamid=0 -logdir=/home/tux/.local/share/Steam/logs -uimode=7 -startcount=2 -steamuniverse=Public -realm=Global -clientui=/home/tux/.local/share/Steam/clientui -steampath=/home/tux/.local/share/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam -launcher=0 --valve-initial-threadpool-size=4 --valve-enable-site-isolation --enable-smooth-scrolling --password-store=basic --log-file=/home/tux/.local/share/Steam/logs/cef_log.txt --disable-quick-menu --disable-component-update --gaia-url=http://disabled.invalid --enable-features=PlatformHEVCDecoderSupport --disable-features=WinRetrieveSuggestionsOnlyOnDemand,SpareRendererForSitePerProcess,DcheckIsFatal,BlockPromptsIfIgnoredOften,ValveFFmpegAllowLowDelayHEVCI have no idea why this keeps happening. Some people have suggested I used steam-native but I couldn't get that to work either since it's missing dependencies. Anyone have any ideas?
Nvidia+grub Nvidia+grubu/CartographerOk6969•8 days agoNvidia+grubQUESTIONHow to set grub + nvidia in arch Linux with nvidia proprietary drivers rtx 3050
Videos don’t play when VPN is enabled Videos don’t play when VPN is enabledu/popmanpop27•20 days agoVideos don’t play when VPN is enabledSUPPORTI’m using my own server withMarzbanandVLESS/Shadowsocks, connecting viaNekoBox in TUN mode.The VPN itself works fine, but when I use the same setup on myMac (same config), everything works perfectly.Videos load on all sites (not only YouTube), but they don’t actually play — the issue is specifically with playback.I also triedGoogle Chrome, but the problem is the same.How can i fix that?
Polkit issue Polkit issueu/Elixivity6366•20 days agoPolkit issueSUPPORThyprland, the authentication popup for polkit shows up with the title being for another user on my computer, and neither using the password for my user nor the other user allows me to authenticate.my loginctl shows this:SESSION  UID USER  SEAT  LEADER CLASS   TTY  IDLE SINCE1 1002 ryand seat0 1101   user    tty1 no   -2 1002 ryand -     1211   manager -    no   -2 sessions listed.~ ❯if i login manually through a tty using exec hyprland or exec start-hyprland polkit works finewhen i use sddm this issue begins and even if i skip the display manager im autologged in, hyprland automatically starts and the issue still persistsgithub.com/dusklinux/duskyusing these dotfiles with a gtx 1050 and an intel i7not exactly sure whats going on can someone help
is it possible to do an entire arch install using only older versions of packages? is it possible to do an entire arch install using only older versions of packages?u/ofplayers•20 days agois it possible to do an entire arch install using only older versions of packages?QUESTIONi remember seeing someone either on this sub or on another linux related subreddit say that they'd completed an arch install with really old packages (i remember hearing something about a package archive?). i want to try this in a vm just to see what it would be like but i have no idea how i would even start the process. how do i do that?
My gopreload uses 6 GiB is there a alternative My gopreload uses 6 GiB is there a alternativeu/slowertrwa•20 days agoMy gopreload uses 6 GiB is there a alternativeSUPPORTi tried to make a gopreload like but it can go zswap or zram but linux kernel doesnt accept cache in zram what should i do? (except buying ssd :( )
I need a PDF editor that can duplicate pages I need a PDF editor that can duplicate pagesu/Prince_du_77•8 days agoI need a PDF editor that can duplicate pagesQUESTIONHi guys,I'm looking for a PDF editor that doesn't only display, but is also able to duplicate pages. Yes I know LibreOffice can do that, but it fucks up the pretty fonts and messes with accents and punctuation marks. For example, I had a pretty resume made with a template on Overleaf, and LibreOffice turned all my " é " into " 'e ".If your recommended editors can also add text and signatures, it would be nice.
Archlinux on Orange Pi 5 Archlinux on Orange Pi 5u/_lazy-lady_•20 days agoArchlinux on Orange Pi 5QUESTIONHello ✨ I've just been given an Orange Pi 5 and I'd like to use it to learn the basics of Archlinux, but also to learn how to set up my own server. I'm really interested in Archlinux. Are there any people here who have versions of Archlinux for ARM other than Orange OS?
Reboot and power on issues - RTX2080TI Reboot and power on issues - RTX2080TIu/ugly-051•20 days agoReboot and power on issues - RTX2080TISUPPORTI'm starting this one off suspecting it's an issue with my GPU given the amount of issues with nvidia cards historically and especially around sleep etc.My issues seems to be related to sleep but the sleep and resume functions work absolutely fine except when a reboot is issued or a power on after power off only.When the device is rebooted (linux seems to shutdown fine) or when it is powered up manually the system won't respond. What happens is the system passes POST, chassis fans do not start, RGB lights come on, monitors or keyboard are inactive and the PSU fans seem to throttle up full and that's it. Only way to get out seems to force power off then power back on. The same thing happens after a restart.This only occurs when the system has woken from sleep at some point, which can be hours or minutes ago. If not sleep/resume was performed it will startup fine.I'll get better specs later but my basics are:Core i7800kRTX 2080Ti with latest nvidia-open drivers.KDE Plasma (latest)Kernel (latest from arch linux)
Check my homework. MSI B550 fan control via CoolerControl Check my homework. MSI B550 fan control via CoolerControlu/Drifter5533•20 days agoCheck my homework. MSI B550 fan control via CoolerControlQUESTIONFairly new to Linux, and newer to Arch. I have an MSI B550 motherboard and wanted to use CoolerControl to manager temps, fans etc. Problem is that the "default" driver (nct6683) only allows reporting fan speed but not control.Through much googling I found these, amongst some others:https://gabmus.org/posts/msi-motherboard-fan-control/https://github.com/Fred78290/nct6687dAnd pieced together these steps:yay -S nct6687d-dkms-gitsudo modprobe nct6687dsudo sh -c 'echo "nct6687" >> /etc/modules-load.d/nct6687.conf'sudo sh -c 'echo "blacklist nct6683" >> /etc/modules-load.d/nct6683.conf'rebootsudo sensors-detectCoolerControl looks like it's working properly and I can set a fan curve for the fans that are plugged into motherboard headers, along with everything else I want to manage. The only issues I see now is this when I run sensors, for example:ERROR: Can't get value of subfeature temp2_type: Kernel interface error(crit =  +0.0°C)  sensor = disabledThere's a lot more of those, but I am assuming the driver is just trying to detect sensors I don't have?Other than that have I done that right? Missed anything?
Yazi theme bug Yazi theme bugu/VinciC2004•20 days agoYazi theme bugSUPPORTYazi theme bugr/arch•20 days agoYazi theme bugHey guys, I'm having some trouble with my yazi config... It used to work but now it won't anymore, everything is white and I don't know how to fix it.I have my catppuccin mocha config in theme.toml2upvotes·4comments
gnome problems gnome problemsu/eni4c•21 days agognome problemsSUPPORTis anyone else experiencing issues with gnome, for example the first time i got arch i got gnome and there was an issue where the borders of windows were glitchy and pixelated, also the font replaced some letters with squares in the terminal, then i reinstalled arch cause i had nothing to lose on my ssd and got arch with kde, it only started once and every Time i wanted it to start it gave me a black screen with a blinking underscore, so i decided to get gnome again cause i liked it more than kde and i still have the same problem with gnome, but now nothing is wrong with the font anymore. dont flame me im new to arch
python JSON5 packages python JSON5 packagesu/codingOtter•20 days agopython JSON5 packagesQUESTIONI was looking to install the JSON5 package for python, and I found that there are two:in the main repo:python-json5:https://archlinux.org/packages/extra/any/python-json5/in the AUR:python-pyjson5:https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/python-pyjson5Anybody knows what are the differences? I can't find that anywhere.
Please help me. I can't connect to wifi. My wlan0 just doesn't show up Please help me. I can't connect to wifi. My wlan0 just doesn't show upu/Exact_Helicopter406•21 days agoPlease help me. I can't connect to wifi. My wlan0 just doesn't show upSUPPORTHey dudes. I just got a X131e thinkpad off ebay a little bit ago. My wifi chip just isn't showing up when I run iwctl device list. I know the chip does work. Becuase I used it when the laptop came in delivery. It worked on Windows. But not on arch. I've installed arch before but I've never had this kind of errorEdit: forgot to mention. When I run "iwctl". Network configuration enabled is disabled.
Is a Wallpaper Engine–like experience possible on GNOME Is a Wallpaper Engine–like experience possible on GNOMEu/honorary_Femboy•21 days agoIs a Wallpaper Engine–like experience possible on GNOMEQUESTIONHello everyone, I hope you’re doing well.I currently run Windows 11 on my main workstation, and recently I decided to install a virtual machine to try out Arch Linux. I’ve used Linux many times before, my old laptop still runs Fedora, and I’ve also used Ubuntu and a few other distributions, so I’m not new to the Linux ecosystem.The main thing that keeps me from fully migrating to Linux is my desktop customization on Windows 11. I use Wallpaper Engine, widgets, and have a very carefully customized desktop setup that I’m quite attached to.I tried to achieve a similar setup on Arch. I know KDE Plasma is very powerful when it comes to customization, but I don’t really like it; I strongly prefer GNOME. I also discovered Hyprland, which looks amazing, but configuring it has been a real pain and feels overwhelming.Ideally, I’d like something on GNOME that works similarly to Wallpaper Engine (animated or dynamic wallpapers with smooth integration), but so far I haven’t been able to get anything working properly. I tried Hidamari and some of the main applications available, but they don’t really work the same way and feel quite limited. I also tried a package calledlinux-wallpaperengine, but it still doesn’t behave as intended.As a last idea, I considered writing my own Python script to handle animated wallpapers. However, GNOME runs on Wayland, and from what I’ve researched, Wayland’s limitations make this significantly harder to implement properly. I’m aware that switching to X11 is an option, but I wasn’t able to do so inside the VM. It’s also possible that some of these issues are caused by testing everything in a virtual machine rather than on bare metal.Does anyone have advice, recommendations, or alternative approaches for achieving a Wallpaper Engine–like experience on GNOME?
Globales Retro Windows Theme für Plasma auf Arch Basis Globales Retro Windows Theme für Plasma auf Arch Basisu/kuhhlboy•21 days agoGlobales Retro Windows Theme für Plasma auf Arch BasisQUESTIONGlobales Retro Windows Theme für Plasma auf Arch Basisr/kde•21 days agoGlobales Retro Windows Theme für Plasma auf Arch BasisHallo, ich würde gerne das Design meines KDE Plasma Richtung Retro Windows GUI gestalten, bspw Windows 98 oder XP. Hat jemand gute Themes oder insgesamt Empfehlungen dafür?6upvotes·2comments
После ввода sudo pacman -S [пакет]. Чёрный экран. После ввода sudo pacman -S [пакет]. Чёрный экран.u/Def_om_ka•9 days agoПосле ввода sudo pacman -S [пакет]. Чёрный экран.SUPPORT | SOLVEDЯ решил купить б/у старый ноутбук - 15.4" HP Pavilion dv5-1164er, Turion X2, RAM 2 ГБ, 160 ГБ, ATI Mobility Radeon HD 3450заменил HDD на SSD и добавил 2 гига. стало 3 гига (было 2 по 1 гб. стало 2 и 1 гб)и скачал арч с lqxt. Запускаюсь и собираюсь скачать что-то. и... черный экран.После ввода sudo pacman -S и любого абсолютно пакета, экран просто становится черным до следующей перезагрузки пк. вообще не понимаю, что не такUPD: я просто скачал kde вместо lqxt. и там такой проблемы нету. (И на удивление kde очень даже мало ест ресурсов)___ENGI decided to buy a used laptop – a 15.4" HP Pavilion dv5-1164er, Turion X2, 2GB RAM, 160GB, ATI Mobility Radeon HD 3450.I replaced the HDD with an SSD and added 2GB. It became 3GB (it was 2 x 1GB, now it's 2 x 1GB).And I downloaded Arch from LQXT. I booted up and tried to download something, and... a black screen.After entering sudo pacman -S and absolutely any package, the screen just goes black until the next reboot. I don't understand what's wrong at all.UPD: I simply downloaded KDE instead of LQXT, and this problem doesn't exist. (And surprisingly, KDE is very resource-efficient.)
Moving away from from snapd Moving away from from snapdu/Keensworth•20 days agoMoving away from from snapdQUESTIONHello, I am trying to remove Snap from my system by replacing apps I've been using on it. I've noticed one problem though.Uninstalled apps remains in my Start Menu. For example, I have Chromium from Arch and Web browser Chromium from Snap that I removed usingsudo snap remove chromium.How can I remove it ?
Problem with bootloader Problem with bootloaderu/Master_Primary_1507•23 days agoProblem with bootloaderSUPPORTI have used arch for about a month now althought im still very noob to this. I somehow messed up my grub2 an upon booting i was geting secure boot error that normal.mod was not found.So I did a bit of research and i and tried to fix it from a live usb. I mounted sdas arch-chroot /mnt grub-install /dev/sda (i dont have efi) Grub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfg (no errors were shown) Exit RebootAfter that it shoud have booted me correctly althought now i get a new prompt: No bootable devices found. Press F1 key to retry reboot Press F2 key to setup utility Press F3 key to run onboard diagnosticsPlease tell me what can I do. I want my system back. If it gets down to it i have setted up timeshift but im not sure how can i retrieve files. Any help would be very appreciated.Edit: if I try to boot from SSD  it shows GNU GRUB Minimal BASH-like line editing is supported grub>Edit(2): thanks everyone for your so kind help. I fixed it for anyone wandering or going throught the same, what i did is:-get into live iso environment $ fdisk -l $mount /dev/sda2 #linux system /mnt $mount /dev/sda1 #bootloader /mnt/boot $iwctl #to connect to wifi $arch-chroot -S /mnt $ pacman -Syu linux $mkinitcpio -P $grub-install /dev/sda $grub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfg $exit $rebootThis somehow got me to bootloader menu but now all my passwords are broken so I can’t login. I suppose I can fix that again from the iso with passwd.
After recent nvidia-dkms to nvidia-open-dkms switch Cyberpunk 2077 in Heroic Launcher won't recognize driver. After recent nvidia-dkms to nvidia-open-dkms switch Cyberpunk 2077 in Heroic Launcher won't recognize driver.u/Competitive_Many1468•22 days agoAfter recent nvidia-dkms to nvidia-open-dkms switch Cyberpunk 2077 in Heroic Launcher won't recognize driver.SUPPORT | SOLVEDLet me start off with the fact that I don't upgrade my system very often, so I only got the new Nvidia drivers now.GPU: NVIDIA GeForce RTX 4060 TiSo I only found out the news of the new Nvidia drivers dropping support for Pascal GPUs and Arch switching the packages to open.After updating my drivers through Pacman and rebooting everything seemed fine until I tried to launch Cyberpunk 2077 through the Heroic Launcher. Which had no issues until now, ending up with an error message coming from RedLauncher stating proper drivers are not installed.If I skip the launcher with arguments the game launches but my CPU takes off at 92 Celsius and GPU takes a holiday not being used at all while the game gets stuck in loading screen at 1 fps per 30 seconds.If anyone is able to help me I would much appreciate it, I tried reinstalling drivers again which has not worked out so far.Any more info about my system or anything needed, just ask and I will try my best to provide it.EDIT | SOLVED: "flatpak update" solved the issue, was to do with Heroic being a flatpak package and not automatically matching driver in it's runtime and game was launching with llvmpipe only using CPU.
Bashd - Helper scripts for bulk data management Bashd - Helper scripts for bulk data managementu/terpinedream•10 days agoBashd - Helper scripts for bulk data managementSHAREhttps://github.com/terpinedream/Bashd
Can’t open nvim in kitty regularly Can’t open nvim in kitty regularlyu/lolololloloolmemes•9 days agoCan’t open nvim in kitty regularlySUPPORTso a couple months ago I had an issue with nvim opening in gnome terminal instead of kitty, I did manage to resolve it a .desktop file however now it’s happening again, I’ve already tried my steps but it does absolutely  nothing so I’m wondering if like there’s something special I have to do with my .desktop file that I’m forgetting? Right now it’s just called nvim.desktop and its contents are Name=Neovim (kitty)Terminal=trueExec=kitty -e nvim %FI’ve done nothing else with the desktop file just created it and done thatI know I’m not supposed to have the terminal line as that brings up a log window but I’m just grasping at straws to see any sort of progress but nadaI did try to uninstall the gnome-console but then had to delete every other terminal aside from kitty that I had installed for it to actually use kitty and then when it finally did all the characters aside from the text look weird and its in reverse colours, I wanted to see if opening nvim as an app would fix this, it opened in kitty but had the weird colour thing, this just started happening and I have no idea why it was working perfectly normal not 15 minutes ago
What DVD/CD burner should I use? What DVD/CD burner should I use?u/Skyfall19816•19 days agoWhat DVD/CD burner should I use?QUESTIONAs a lover of old technology, I like to burn CDs and DVDs. Since I converted from Windows to Arch, I used to be able to burn and rip optical media with a copy of Windows Media Player from Windows 7. However, now I need an upgrade that runs on arch. Is there any software that you guys would recommend? Thanks!
KDE Plasma (Wayland) slow and annoying in some ways KDE Plasma (Wayland) slow and annoying in some waysu/kuhhlboy•19 days agoKDE Plasma (Wayland) slow and annoying in some waysSUPPORT | SOLVEDHello, i just switched from Windows to Linux and installed Arch Linux a few days ago. When choosing a GUI, i followed the advise from various sources and decided KDE Plasma would be the best. I really like it for the customizability and the simplicity, but now after using it for a few days, I found a few things that annoy me and would like some help fixing those "problems" so I can enjoy spending time at my pc even more. First of all, my Browser (Brave, but also tried Chromium) takes an eternity (17 seconds) when first started. Sometimes, I cant even open websites, cause they are just loading infinitly and nothing happens, even though all other programs use the network perfectly fine. As last, just a small issue. Wtf is the KDE Wallet and why does it start everytime I boot my pc, can I turn it off somehow? If you read this far, thank you really much, I'd really appreciate some advise in how to optimise my experience in Arch Linux, because I really like the overall concept. (Btw sorry for the bad english, non-native speaker)
Que sistema operativo me conviene para jugar y usar programas CELERON N4500, 8gb ram y 128gb EMMC Que sistema operativo me conviene para jugar y usar programas CELERON N4500, 8gb ram y 128gb EMMCu/Born-Association-119•20 days agoQue sistema operativo me conviene para jugar y usar programas CELERON N4500, 8gb ram y 128gb EMMCQUESTIONHola como estan soy nuevo recien me cree la cuenta a pesar de que siempre iba a foros de reddit a buscar soluciones a problemas y ver otras cosas, queria saber que sistema operativo me conviene mas en mi laptops con las siguientes specs:Celeron n45008gb ram ddr4128gb emmcYo ahora ando usando Arch Linux
Hesitant to choose my OS Hesitant to choose my OSu/No_Level_OPS•20 days agoHesitant to choose my OSQUESTIONHesitant to choose my OSr/arch•20 days agoHesitant to choose my OSI have 0 experience in OS and Im building my first ever pc. After watching some videos about windows 11 and linux, I decided I’ll go with Arch linux as my main os. However my use case is mainly AI/ML and a bit of gaming. I wanted to ask is arch linux the right option for my use case?Fyi: My gpu is 5080 and cpu ryzen 9 7900x (idk if this information is useful or no). And thank you.6upvotes·44comments
I ruined my MacBook I ruined my MacBooku/Financial-War-7175•9 days agoI ruined my MacBookSUPPORTHey everyone . About 7 months ago , I tried to install arch Linux on my MacBook Pro and when I actually got to boot it up it seemed life Arch has been installed but my MacBook stop respond to keyboard and mousepad input so I bought a USB keyboards and mouse and kept trying , I wiped everything from my laptop and kept trying over and over again it’s not work . And I’m making this post to ask ,does anyone run Arch on a MacBook Pro ?
What would be the best WM to use right now with an nvidia GPU? What would be the best WM to use right now with an nvidia GPU?[deleted]•21 days agoWhat would be the best WM to use right now with an nvidia GPU?QUESTIONRunning an Nvidia GPU right now, don't plan to switch for the next year or two. Its the GTX 1050 for laptops. I'm forced to use nvidia-580xx-dkms drivers. Using KDE right now and wanted to shift to a tiling VM, I'm conflicted between hyprland, sway, i3 and dwm. Any suggestions? I'll likely try out several of them regardless until one does what I want but one WM is time taking on its own. Which one would be the best fit?
Confquery: A scriptable command-line utility for editing linux config files like pacman.conf Confquery: A scriptable command-line utility for editing linux config files like pacman.confu/No-Dentist-1645•19 days agoConfquery: A scriptable command-line utility for editing linux config files like pacman.confSHAREhttps://github.com/AmmoniumX/confquery
DeepIn caused KDE conflictions (HELP!!) DeepIn caused KDE conflictions (HELP!!)u/DJ_SNEAKY•9 days agoDeepIn caused KDE conflictions (HELP!!)QUESTIONDeepIn caused KDE conflictions (HELP!!)r/kde•9 days agoDeepIn caused KDE conflictions (HELP!!)hey guys im quite new to Linux, been using it for a month and still in a learning stage. i wanted to check out the different Desktop Environments and Window Managers, because I was just interested how they behave differently than my beloved hyprland, KDE and Xfce.SO now when i tried downloading DeepIn's package Group it had a package which was something likke deepi-kwin or smth and it conflicted with my regular kwin, i quickly denied to remove it since KDE is my secondary Environment that i use. I then tried logging into an kde session and suddenly the default wallpapers changed to deepins wallpaper for the breeze themes, soe icons where just wrong and fons also suddenly changed. how do i get this remaining deepin stuff out and get my normal kde back without losing any themes or settings7comments
I created a blog to make zram on zram generator I created a blog to make zram on zram generatoru/csouzape•10 days agoI created a blog to make zram on zram generatorSHARELook this:https://www.meus10centavos.com.br/como-fazer-swap-em-zram.htmland take me a feedback is on portuguese translate to english.
Nvidia Updated Drivers Nvidia Updated Driversu/Vexyno•1 mo. agoNvidia Updated DriversSUPPORT | SOLVEDI recently did a fresh install of Arch on my main PC and I have been digging through the wiki and google for the correct drivers for my nvidia 970, I installed the nvidia-580xx-dkms and the nvidia-580xx-utils packages using yay but the output of nvidia-smi still says that it can't find my graphics card and the resolution of my monitor is downscaled.the output of lspci -k shows that the driver that's being used is nouveauI made a file in /etc/modprobe.d/ to try to blacklist nouveau and that didn't workI update the grub in /etc/default/grub with the nvidia_drm modeset=1 command which didn't seem to help.does anyone else have this issue or a fix?
`pacman -syu` says there is nothing to do `pacman -syu` says there is nothing to dou/whoShotMyCow•10 days ago`pacman -syu` says there is nothing to doSUPPORT | SOLVEDTitle edit: "-Syu" instead of "-syu"I realized a week ago I hadn't updated my system in a bit, so I put the command in, and it said this. I thought first that maybe i forgot about a recent update and went nvm, but after doing it a couple times since, and the same thing showing up, and like arch being such bleeding edge I find it hard to believe there's not a single thing to do? is there a server issue going on nowadays that went under my radar?UPD1: updated mirrorlist using the generator onarchlinux.org/mirrorlistand then did an Syu. it's taking a longer time than earlier runs which i assume is because of the new mirrors. once it goes through, if the same behaviour as before is seen i'll try reflectorUPD2: it was very slow and went on for way too long, i used rankmirrors and that improved speed and that's what worked. thank youUPD3: reflector kept failing with some python-ish error that I didn't have time to investigate
How do I dual boot arch and windows on the same nvme? How do I dual boot arch and windows on the same nvme?u/Commercial_Pause_203•10 days agoHow do I dual boot arch and windows on the same nvme?SUPPORTIm new to arch linux and want to learn more but i still need a "reliable" os for school and such
AI for Linux... This Post Will Not Go Over Well AI for Linux... This Post Will Not Go Over Wellu/linuxpriest•20 days agoAI for Linux... This Post Will Not Go Over WellFLUFFI'm a tinkerer, like most of us. I've messed with every (major) distro, DE, WM, and declarative distros (Fedora's Atomic distros and nixOS), all on bare metal. So at this point, I'd say I'm probably an intermediate-to-advanced user, but far from a tech expert or professional coder.This past year, AI has changed the way I tinker. No more neck beard gatekeepers, no more wading through documentation and Reddit posts. What once took me hours now takes minutes, and what took days now takes hours. Total game changer.Here's the sticking point... It requires "making a deal with the deal with the devil," so to speak, if you're an open-source purist. That's cool and all, but if that's you, prepare to be deeply offended. Ready your soapboxes.My workflow now includes notebookLM, Gemini Advanced, and Google's new Antigravity IDE (I'll never use another IDE now) and yes, Chrome (to better inform Gemini's knowledge of my OS and specific interests, things IwantGemini to be aware of for future reference). Firefox is still my go-to browser for casual use.I also use Calibre for some file conversions, mainly books, but also the occasional website HTML. When that fails, I use Gemini to create a prompt for Antigravity to handle the conversion and formatting.I have dedicated notebooks with curated knowledge bases (btw, .md is your friend; .pdf and others use up more tokens) for different things like my current setup, an Arch+Hyprland knowledge base, and more.Just connect the appropriate notebook to your Gemini and run with it!But while you're curating your notebook(s), Gemini does surprisingly well all on its own. And if you want to play with nixOS without having to scour the Internet to piece together its disparate documentation, Gemini is a one-stop search. You'll have working configs in literally seconds. Maybe not THE perfect configuration on the first iteration, but a solid start to get you up and running. My current nixOS workstation (also Hyprland, btw) was built from nothing in literally minutes using only Gemini.I know that this is all blasphemy against open-source philosophy, but if you want to spend more timedoingthings with your computer and less time doing detective work to set it up and maintain it... AI is the way.*Edit to fix a typo
Wacom one 13 screen not working Wacom one 13 screen not workingu/Shinochiki•21 days agoWacom one 13 screen not workingSUPPORTHi, I've recently switched from windows to arch, so I'm sorry if the question might sound stupid.Basically, the tablet itself works, i can map it to both my main screen and the tablet's screen and interact with everything using the stylus, BUT, the physical display (tablet's) remains black.The screen gets recognized and i can both drag programs across, share it on discord, and so on, but the display itself remains black.I think it might be helpful to tell you that:I'm using Waylandthe DE I'm using is kdeI have an amd gpuI've noticed that changing the brightness of the tablet's screen from the DE setting actually changes the tablet's brightness, so i can kind of interact with it (idk if that helps).Sorry again if the question is both stupid and phrased poorly, but i really need the tablet to work and idk where else to ask.
Identify and prevent unwanted (suspected) USB HID inputs Identify and prevent unwanted (suspected) USB HID inputsu/COrthbandt•21 days agoIdentify and prevent unwanted (suspected) USB HID inputsQUESTIONI can almost reproduce this issue on two machines running Arch and Fedora with two identical USB speakers.Here's what happens: I have a desktop USB speaker (AMZN ID B0CPJ1WHCK, random chinesium speaker) connected through USB-A via a USB dock to my two laptops.The speaker spec do not mention any sensor features.When sound or video is playing and I move away from my desk, the playback stops as if I had pressed the pause key on the keyboard. This also triggers randomly (very annoying). It is not 100% reliable, but typically very probable if media playback started recently and the device was silent before.I can't see any events in wev and I don't know how to monitor USB HID events from this device specifically. I *suspect* there's some undocumented presence sensor built into the speaker sending a pause keystroke via USB. lsusb for the device shows all kinds of stuff one wouldn't expect from a simple speaker, such as a microphone (which does *not* show up in the system audio inputs) and HID. The speaker suspiciously reports with ID 8087:1024, which would indicate an Intel device, which it is clearly not.The speaker has two volume buttons that modify the system volume (so they're HID keys) and a "play/pause" button that does *not* trigger any visible system change and only mutes/unmutes audio on the speaker itself.How can I diagnose this further? I'd like to disable any HID input from this specific device.Here's the lsusb output:Bus 007 Device 029: ID 8087:1024 Intel Corp. USB2.0 Device Couldn't open device, some information will be missing Negotiated speed: Full Speed (12Mbps) Device Descriptor:   bLength                18   bDescriptorType         1   bcdUSB               1.10   bDeviceClass            0 [unknown]   bDeviceSubClass         0 [unknown]   bDeviceProtocol         0    bMaxPacketSize0        64   idVendor           0x8087 Intel Corp.   idProduct          0x1024 USB2.0 Device   bcdDevice            1.00   iManufacturer           1 Generic   iProduct                2 USB2.0 Device   iSerial                 3 20170726905923   bNumConfigurations      1   Configuration Descriptor:     bLength                 9     bDescriptorType         2     wTotalLength       0x00e1     bNumInterfaces          4     bConfigurationValue     1     iConfiguration          0      bmAttributes         0x80       (Bus Powered)     MaxPower              100mA     Interface Descriptor:       bLength                 9       bDescriptorType         4       bInterfaceNumber        0       bAlternateSetting       0       bNumEndpoints           0       bInterfaceClass         1 Audio       bInterfaceSubClass      1 Control Device       bInterfaceProtocol      0        iInterface              0        AudioControl Interface Descriptor:         bLength                10         bDescriptorType        36         bDescriptorSubtype      1 (HEADER)         bcdADC               1.00         wTotalLength       0x0047         bInCollection           2         baInterfaceNr(0)        1         baInterfaceNr(1)        2       AudioControl Interface Descriptor:         bLength                12         bDescriptorType        36         bDescriptorSubtype      2 (INPUT_TERMINAL)         bTerminalID             1         wTerminalType      0x0101 USB Streaming         bAssocTerminal          0         bNrChannels             2         wChannelConfig     0x0003           Left Front (L)           Right Front (R)         iChannelNames           0          iTerminal               0        AudioControl Interface Descriptor:         bLength                10         bDescriptorType        36         bDescriptorSubtype      6 (FEATURE_UNIT)         bUnitID                 2         bSourceID               1         bControlSize            1         bmaControls(0)       0x03           Mute Control           Volume Control         bmaControls(1)       0x00         bmaControls(2)       0x00         iFeature                0        AudioControl Interface Descriptor:         bLength                 9         bDescriptorType        36         bDescriptorSubtype      3 (OUTPUT_TERMINAL)         bTerminalID             3         wTerminalType      0x0301 Speaker         bAssocTerminal          0         bSourceID               2         iTerminal               0        AudioControl Interface Descriptor:         bLength                12         bDescriptorType        36         bDescriptorSubtype      2 (INPUT_TERMINAL)         bTerminalID             4         wTerminalType      0x0201 Microphone         bAssocTerminal          0         bNrChannels             1         wChannelConfig     0x0000         iChannelNames           0          iTerminal               0        AudioControl Interface Descriptor:         bLength                 9         bDescriptorType        36         bDescriptorSubtype      6 (FEATURE_UNIT)         bUnitID                 5         bSourceID               4         bControlSize            1         bmaControls(0)       0x03           Mute Control           Volume Control         bmaControls(1)       0x00         iFeature                0        AudioControl Interface Descriptor:         bLength                 9         bDescriptorType        36         bDescriptorSubtype      3 (OUTPUT_TERMINAL)         bTerminalID             6         wTerminalType      0x0101 USB Streaming         bAssocTerminal          0         bSourceID               5         iTerminal               0      Interface Descriptor:       bLength                 9       bDescriptorType         4       bInterfaceNumber        1       bAlternateSetting       0       bNumEndpoints           0       bInterfaceClass         1 Audio       bInterfaceSubClass      2 Streaming       bInterfaceProtocol      0        iInterface              0      Interface Descriptor:       bLength                 9       bDescriptorType         4       bInterfaceNumber        1       bAlternateSetting       1       bNumEndpoints           1       bInterfaceClass         1 Audio       bInterfaceSubClass      2 Streaming       bInterfaceProtocol      0        iInterface              0        AudioStreaming Interface Descriptor:         bLength                 7         bDescriptorType        36         bDescriptorSubtype      1 (AS_GENERAL)         bTerminalLink           1         bDelay                  1 frames         wFormatTag         0x0001 PCM       AudioStreaming Interface Descriptor:         bLength                11         bDescriptorType        36         bDescriptorSubtype      2 (FORMAT_TYPE)         bFormatType             1 (FORMAT_TYPE_I)         bNrChannels             2         bSubframeSize           2         bBitResolution         16         bSamFreqType            1 Discrete         tSamFreq[ 0]        48000       Endpoint Descriptor:         bLength                 9         bDescriptorType         5         bEndpointAddress     0x02  EP 2 OUT         bmAttributes            9           Transfer Type            Isochronous           Synch Type               Adaptive           Usage Type               Data         wMaxPacketSize     0x00c0  1x 192 bytes         bInterval               1         bRefresh                0         bSynchAddress           0         AudioStreaming Endpoint Descriptor:           bLength                 7           bDescriptorType        37           bDescriptorSubtype      1 (EP_GENERAL)           bmAttributes         0x01             Sampling Frequency           bLockDelayUnits         1 Milliseconds           wLockDelay         0x0001     Interface Descriptor:       bLength                 9       bDescriptorType         4       bInterfaceNumber        2       bAlternateSetting       0       bNumEndpoints           0       bInterfaceClass         1 Audio       bInterfaceSubClass      2 Streaming       bInterfaceProtocol      0        iInterface              0      Interface Descriptor:       bLength                 9       bDescriptorType         4       bInterfaceNumber        2       bAlternateSetting       1       bNumEndpoints           1       bInterfaceClass         1 Audio       bInterfaceSubClass      2 Streaming       bInterfaceProtocol      0        iInterface              0        AudioStreaming Interface Descriptor:         bLength                 7         bDescriptorType        36         bDescriptorSubtype      1 (AS_GENERAL)         bTerminalLink           6         bDelay                  1 frames         wFormatTag         0x0001 PCM       AudioStreaming Interface Descriptor:         bLength                11         bDescriptorType        36         bDescriptorSubtype      2 (FORMAT_TYPE)         bFormatType             1 (FORMAT_TYPE_I)         bNrChannels             1         bSubframeSize           2         bBitResolution         16         bSamFreqType            1 Discrete         tSamFreq[ 0]        48000       Endpoint Descriptor:         bLength                 9         bDescriptorType         5         bEndpointAddress     0x82  EP 2 IN         bmAttributes            5           Transfer Type            Isochronous           Synch Type               Asynchronous           Usage Type               Data         wMaxPacketSize     0x0080  1x 128 bytes         bInterval               1         bRefresh                0         bSynchAddress           0         AudioStreaming Endpoint Descriptor:           bLength                 7           bDescriptorType        37           bDescriptorSubtype      1 (EP_GENERAL)           bmAttributes         0x01             Sampling Frequency           bLockDelayUnits         0 Undefined           wLockDelay         0x0000     Interface Descriptor:       bLength                 9       bDescriptorType         4       bInterfaceNumber        3       bAlternateSetting       0       bNumEndpoints           2       bInterfaceClass         3 Human Interface Device       bInterfaceSubClass      0 [unknown]       bInterfaceProtocol      0        iInterface              0          HID Device Descriptor:           bLength                 9           bDescriptorType        33           bcdHID               2.01           bCountryCode            0 Not supported           bNumDescriptors         1           bDescriptorType        34 Report           wDescriptorLength      33           Report Descriptors:              ** UNAVAILABLE **       Endpoint Descriptor:         bLength                 7         bDescriptorType         5         bEndpointAddress     0x83  EP 3 IN         bmAttributes            3           Transfer Type            Interrupt           Synch Type               None           Usage Type               Data         wMaxPacketSize     0x0010  1x 16 bytes         bInterval               1       Endpoint Descriptor:         bLength                 7         bDescriptorType         5         bEndpointAddress     0x03  EP 3 OUT         bmAttributes            3           Transfer Type            Interrupt           Synch Type               None           Usage Type               Data         wMaxPacketSize     0x0010  1x 16 bytes         bInterval              10
Should I switch to Arch? Should I switch to Arch?u/finixto•10 days agoShould I switch to Arch?QUESTIONRecently I've switched to ubuntu from windows, and it feels great but I want to feel more grate so my plan is to learn linux commands and then switch to Arch, as a say With great power comes great responsibility and I want that great power in my hands.What do you think would learning terminal commands from ubuntu do any help in Arch?
I Can't run archinstall I Can't run archinstallu/Adventurous-Love9320•21 days agoI Can't run archinstallSUPPORTroot@archiso "/archinstall (git)-[master] # python -m archinstall $@Traceback (most recent call last):File "<frozen runpy>", line 198, in_run_module_as_mainFile "<frozen runpy>", line 88, in _run_codeFile "/root/archinstall/archinstall/main.py", line 3, in <module>from archinstall.main import mainFile "/root/archinstall/archinstall/main.py", line 10, in <module>from archinstall.lib.args import arch_config_handlerFile "/root/archinstall/archinstall/lib/args.py", line 17, in <module>from archinstall.lib.models.application import ApplicationConfiguration, ZramConfigurationFile "/root/archinstall/archinstall/lib/models/init.py", line 3, in <module>from.device import (<25 lines>)File "/root/archinstall/archinstall/lib/models/device.py", line 12, in <module>import parted ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'parted'1 root@archiso ~/archinstall (git)-[master] #And when only try to run "archinstall"root@archiso #archinstallTraceback (most recent call last):File "/usr/bin/archinstall", line 5, in <module>from archinstall import run_as_a_moduleModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'archinstall'1 root@archiso 2
Internet Not Working after uninstalling ProtonVPN Internet Not Working after uninstalling ProtonVPNu/Medium-Prize-1698•21 days agoInternet Not Working after uninstalling ProtonVPNSUPPORTI had installed proton vpn from pacman and after realizing I can't use the free version with qbittorrent, I immediately uninstalled it. Now  the problem is that when I use a network which I can only access after putting credentials in it's login page, I am greeted with the proton warning page of no p2p connections allowed and I am not allowed to open the login page.I have uninstalled both proton vpn and qbittorrent but that page still shows up every time I connect to that network.
Trying to boot into arch just boots into Windows Trying to boot into arch just boots into Windowsu/xavcube•22 days agoTrying to boot into arch just boots into WindowsSUPPORT | SOLVEDI have a 13w lenovo yoga gen 2 which is a laptop for education and I partitioned the ssd to dual boot windows and arch, and I used grub as the bootloader, but when I spam f12 to go to the boot menu of the laptop and select "Linux Boot Manager", it just boots into Windows. I installed arch on a portable hard drive before, and used grub and it booted fine on the same laptop for one day and then started booting into Windows. I think it might be something to do with the laptop being designed for education.Video of issueEdit: I switched to systemd boot and it works now
Creating a steamlibrary (for filling on linux but using on windows). Creating a steamlibrary (for filling on linux but using on windows).u/Flashy-Show5897•21 days agoCreating a steamlibrary (for filling on linux but using on windows).QUESTIONI decided to not get rid of windows yet, however the download rate I get on arch is a lot faster. So I need the best way to just have a SteamLibrary on a partition which I can easily mount on windows. Then once I have the games downloaded I will play them on windows. I just find it too complicated trial and error to play games on proton etc.
How do you guys use resolve on arch How do you guys use resolve on archu/isa-skywalke12_r•22 days agoHow do you guys use resolve on archQUESTIONI’ve seen a bunch of hacks floating around to run resolve on archwas curious about which one still works and requires minimal head-bashing
Day 5 stressing over Arch Day 5 stressing over Archu/OtherWatercress9631•22 days agoDay 5 stressing over ArchSUPPORT | SOLVEDYeah, this is starting to look like a shitpost. But yeah, here i am on day 5.What i did was installing a few stuff on KDEInclude: steam, obsidian, discord, etc2It all was working fine. Please highlight the word WAS. Yesterday it was buttery smooth, sexy ass new operating system. Today i booted it up and yeah, shit broke. Tried fixing it, remount, ask gemini, etc2 nothing works.The error is this[FAILED] Failed to mount /boot.[DEPEND] Dependency failed for Local File Systems.You are in emergency mode. After logging in, type "journalctl -xb" to view system logs, "systemctl reboot" to reboot, or "exit"to continue bootup.Enter root password for system maintenance(or press Control-D to continue):Again, i am terribly sorry for this
failed to synchronize all databases (no servers configured for repository) failed to synchronize all databases (no servers configured for repository)u/small_angry_frog•10 days agofailed to synchronize all databases (no servers configured for repository)SUPPORT | SOLVEDHello! I am new to arch linux, and have recently after re-installing my operating system I've begun to see this error when I attempt to update my system or synchronize packages. I am still able to install a lot of packages with pacman, but some of them yield the same error.Here is my current mirrorlist, I have seen several people suggest uncommenting mirrors in the list, but I don't think any of my mirrors are commented out. Any and all help is appreciated!## WorldwideServer =https://fastly.mirror.pkgbuild.com/$repo/os/$archServer =https://geo.mirror.pkgbuild.com/$repo/os/$archServer =https://ftpmirror.infania.net/mirror/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirror.rackspace.com/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirror.rackspace.com/archlinux/$repo/os/$arch## United StatesServer =https://mirrors.acm.wpi.edu/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://arch.mirror.constant.com/$repo/os/$archServer =https://arch.mirror.constant.com/$repo/os/$archServer =http://arlm.tyzoid.com/$repo/os/$archServer =https://us.arch.niranjan.co/$repo/os/$archServer =https://arch.mirror.marcusspencer.us:4443/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirrors.lug.mtu.edu/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://losangeles.mirror.pkgbuild.com/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirrors.logal.dev/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirrors.lug.mtu.edu/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://arch.hu.fo/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirror.givebytes.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://arlm.tyzoid.com/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirror.math.princeton.edu/pub/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirror.wdc1.us.leaseweb.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirror.sfo12.us.leaseweb.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://forksystems.mm.fcix.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://iad.mirrors.misaka.one/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://plug-mirror.rcac.purdue.edu/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://volico.mm.fcix.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://nocix.mm.fcix.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://southfront.mm.fcix.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://nnenix.mm.fcix.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://iad.mirrors.misaka.one/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://codingflyboy.mm.fcix.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://irltoolkit.mm.fcix.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirror.fcix.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirror.zackmyers.io/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://arch.hu.fo/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://forksystems.mm.fcix.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://opencolo.mm.fcix.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://ziply.mm.fcix.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirrors.kernel.org/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://us-mnz.soulharsh007.dev/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://southfront.mm.fcix.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://coresite.mm.fcix.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://volico.mm.fcix.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirror.adectra.com/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://us.mirrors.cicku.me/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://nnenix.mm.fcix.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://nocix.mm.fcix.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirror.us.cdn-perfprod.com/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirrors.cat.pdx.edu/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://arch.miningtcup.me/$repo/os/$archServer =https://opencolo.mm.fcix.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://codingflyboy.mm.fcix.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://coresite.mm.fcix.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirrors.vectair.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirror.theash.xyz/arch/$repo/os/$archServer =https://irltoolkit.mm.fcix.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirror.us.cdn-perfprod.com/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://us.mirrors.cicku.me/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirrors.kernel.org/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirror.adectra.com/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://repo.customcomputercare.com/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirrors.xtom.com/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirrors.rit.edu/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://plug-mirror.rcac.purdue.edu/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://ziply.mm.fcix.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirror.sfo12.us.leaseweb.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://ohioix.mm.fcix.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirrors.rit.edu/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirror.akane.network/archmirror/$repo/os/$archServer =https://repo.ialab.dsu.edu/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://ohioix.mm.fcix.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://repo.ialab.dsu.edu/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirrors.sonic.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://arch.miningtcup.me/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirrors.xtom.com/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://zxcvfdsa.com/arch/$repo/os/$archServer =http://archmirror1.octyl.net/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirror.fcix.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirrors.lahansons.com/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirror.colonelhosting.com/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirrors.mit.edu/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://archmirror1.octyl.net/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirror.colonelhosting.com/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirrors.mit.edu/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirrors.sonic.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://repo.customcomputercare.com/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://arch-mirror.brightlight.today/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirrors.ocf.berkeley.edu/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirror.wdc1.us.leaseweb.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirror.cs.odu.edu/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://arch.mirror.k0.ae/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirror.cs.odu.edu/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirror.clarkson.edu/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirrors.ocf.berkeley.edu/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirror.clarkson.edu/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirrors.gigenet.com/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://ord.mirror.rackspace.com/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://ord.mirror.rackspace.com/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirrors.xmission.com/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirror.siena.edu/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirror.umd.edu/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirror.arizona.edu/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirror.umd.edu/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirror.arizona.edu/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://arch.hugeblank.dev/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirror.vtti.vt.edu/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirrors.acm.wpi.edu/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://arch.hugeblank.dev/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirrors.bloomu.edu/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirrors.bloomu.edu/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://m.lqy.me/arch/$repo/os/$archServer =http://iad.mirror.rackspace.com/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://iad.mirror.rackspace.com/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://dfw.mirror.rackspace.com/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://dfw.mirror.rackspace.com/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://ftp.osuosl.org/pub/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://ftp.osuosl.org/pub/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirror.cs.vt.edu/pub/ArchLinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirror.metrocast.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirrors.liquidweb.com/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://repo.miserver.it.umich.edu/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =http://distro.ibiblio.org/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirrors.shr.cx/arch/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirrors.smeal.xyz/arch-linux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirrors.smeal.xyz/arch-linux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirror.pilotfiber.com/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://arch.goober.cloud/$repo/os/$archServer =http://wcbmedia.io:8000/$repo/os/$archServer =http://mirrors.iu13.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$archServer =https://mirrors.iu13.net/archlinux/$repo/os/$arch
Dell Laptop Fan Problem Dell Laptop Fan Problemu/thefireisg-one•8 days agoDell Laptop Fan ProblemSUPPORTIntroduction Hello Everyone The Fan of my Dell Laptop Vostro 3400 is not working correctly on latest arch linux I have tried reinstalling arch linux multiple times , i have tried using nixos , the issue persists.The Problem When the cpu temps are high and the cpu is under load , the fan does not spin , it works in mysterious ways , sometimes it starts spinning at maximum speed without any load and sometimes my laptop is hotter than Lucifer's armpit.Observations When I first started using Arch Linux , 1 Year ago , The output ofsensorshad a section like this -dell_smm-isa-00de Adapter: ISA adapter fan1:           0 RPM  (min =    0 RPM, max = 4900 RPM) temp1:        +44.0°C   temp2:        +36.0°C   temp3:        +39.0°C   pwm1:              0%It used to show the current RPM , the fan was controlled by system BIOS , but now it is like this -dell_smm-isa-00de Adapter: ISA adapter fan1:           0 RPM  (min =    0 RPM, max = 4900 RPM) temp1:        +44.0°C   temp2:        +36.0°C   temp3:        +39.0°C   pwm1:              0%  MANUAL CONTROLI observed this change around 6 months ago.Things I have triedI have tried usingsensors detectand thenpwmconfig, the command does not work and thusfancontroldoes not workI have tried usingi8kutilsanddell-bios-fan-control-git, it works but now how i want. It works in mysterious ways , I cant automate it , and i Liked the BIOS control better
Arch won’t boot after archinstall Arch won’t boot after archinstallu/Master_Primary_1507•22 days agoArch won’t boot after archinstallSUPPORTArch won’t boot after archinstallHello, recently i broke my system completely (not difficult since grub is so f*cking unreliable). I was able while chrooting to fix it to backup my important files to a usb. So I decided to re install arch linux. Problem is that I don’t have a 2nd laptop available so I had to do so with a 3 months old iso file.I tried installing from archinstall, since i have no time to read the whole wiki again. I repartitioned everything with btrfs and since grub proved really unreliable I decided to go with the default systemd-boot.I run the scrypt, chrooted back in with no errors. When i rebooted I got booted back to ventoy. So  I power off and removed the live iso. After opening my laptop again I got this message: No boot device found. Press any key to reboot the machine.I tried again with grub and then again with systemd/boot. Not sure what I’m doing wrong. Can anyone help???EDIT!!!: nevermind, for some reason I didn’t tweak anything, i just got into BIOS setup and then exited. Now it works jut fine. Thanks all for understanding. PS.: I know grub is a great tool i was just furious sice I broke my system, which of course i blame myself for that.
[OC] I wrote a small CLI tool to help keep Arch clean (orphans, cache, .pacnew) [OC] I wrote a small CLI tool to help keep Arch clean (orphans, cache, .pacnew)u/technicalhowto•22 days ago[OC] I wrote a small CLI tool to help keep Arch clean (orphans, cache, .pacnew)SHAREI've been working on a simple Python utility [arch-cleaner] to help automate the standard system maintenance tasks I usually do manually.It basically wraps a few common cleanup commands into one script. Currently, it handles:Orphans: identifying and removing unused dependencies.Cache: running paccache to keep only the last 3 versions (so you can still downgrade if an update breaks something).Junk: clearing out partial downloads (.part files).Configs: listing .pacnew and .pacsave files so you don't miss any config merges.I just uploaded it to the AUR today. It's lightweight and I find it useful for quick maintenance.AUR:https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/arch-cleanerGitHub:https://github.com/ranjanssgj/arch-cleanerLet me know if you have any feedback or if there's anything else I should add to it.
Why do you think most of the linux users hates AI generated stuffs ? Why do you think most of the linux users hates AI generated stuffs ?u/Dependent-Ship4288•10 days agoWhy do you think most of the linux users hates AI generated stuffs ?QUESTIONWhy do you think most of the linux users hates AI generated stuffs ?I know Ai generated stuffs can be bad but there are also good stuffs which are AI generated. in todays modern era, dont you think we should embrace AI and atleast dont hate on people if we are not showing encouragement ?i am not a supporter of AI nor a hater. i just want your opinions
Help! grub theme Help! grub themeu/Direct_Anxiety1685•22 days agoHelp! grub themeQUESTIONTell me what to do. I installed the Grub theme, but when I launch it, it only shows the left part of the theme. There was another theme that worked correctly.
Krita, problem with .kra opening Krita, problem with .kra openingu/LazyMiB•10 days agoKrita, problem with .kra openingSUPPORTProblem with .kra openingr/krita•10 days agoProblem with .kra openingIt's fresh kra files. I'm just to save a new project, and then can't open it with error:Krita does not support this file format.I don't see critical errors, only this:Invalid profile :  "/usr/share/color/icc/colord/Crayons.icc" Invalid profile :  "/usr/share/color/icc/colord/x11-colors.icc" QObject::startTimer: Timers cannot have negative intervals /usr/lib/krita-python-libs/krita added to PYTHONPATH5.2.15, arch linux1upvote·11comments
Wireless screen mirroring. Wireless screen mirroring.u/problemakinglicker•23 days agoWireless screen mirroring.SUPPORT | SOLVEDWireless screen mirroringMy school forces us to do a lot of presentations. The problem is that the screen they use don't have a working hdmi cord, so bluetooth screen casting/mirroring is the only way to present.What are some ways to make bluetooth be able to pick up the display and connect to it?(And wifi screen mirroring doesn't work on these displays btw)Edit: So I decided that getting wireless screen sharing to work is too much of a hassle and I don't possess the proper linux knowledge to make it work, so the easiest and most effective solution is just to bring my own hdmi cord. Unsatisfying ending, but that's just how it is ig
I've came across a problem with mount on double boot a little bit too late I think I've came across a problem with mount on double boot a little bit too late I thinku/CosterLOL•22 days agoI've came across a problem with mount on double boot a little bit too late I thinkSUPPORTI've installed arch on my PC like a half a year ago and everything worked fine until I booted windows for the first time because I had to access something there. The problem became noticeable when I noticed that my [mount] partition didn't load. Everything worked fine and even works now but when I decided to change my swap to zram that's when I noticed onlsblkthat my partition mounts were completely fucked up. I'm not sure on how to fix that safely without breaking my boot completely.I want to move my boot/efi to nvme0n1p1 without any problems but I'm a little bit scared to perform that action even tho I have backup ready...[backup partition].. -------------------------- [windows partitions] nvme1n1     259:0    0 931.5G  0 disk  ├─nvme1n1p1 259:1    0   100M  0 part /boot/efi ├─nvme1n1p2 259:2    0    16M  0 part ├─nvme1n1p3 259:3    0 930.9G  0 part └─nvme1n1p4 259:4    0   533M  0 part [arch linux partitions] nvme0n1     259:5    0 931.5G  0 disk  ├─nvme0n1p1 259:6    0   100M  0 part ├─nvme0n1p2 259:7    0    32G  0 part └─nvme0n1p3 259:8    0   899G  0 part /
Screen Off unless I use "nomodeset" parameter in the Edit mode in GRUB Screen Off unless I use "nomodeset" parameter in the Edit mode in GRUBu/EfficientAir7072•22 days agoScreen Off unless I use "nomodeset" parameter in the Edit mode in GRUBSUPPORTHello, this is my first time installing Arch in my laptop (btw, it is a Inspiron 15 3552) the installation went perfect, no errors, i could install Arch without erasing my whole disk (btw this installation was in dual-boot with Windows 10), everything went fine, but, the problem is, if i try to boot Arch from GRUB without "nomodeset" parameter, it just gives me a turn off screen, literally no black screen, no stuttering or backloght, no anything but interestingly, the laptop is still on, I even have the Intel drivers installed, what to do now?
System Crash and Disk Errors After Starting KVM/QEMU with Windows VM and Nvidia GPU Passthrough System Crash and Disk Errors After Starting KVM/QEMU with Windows VM and Nvidia GPU Passthroughu/cashyan•22 days agoSystem Crash and Disk Errors After Starting KVM/QEMU with Windows VM and Nvidia GPU PassthroughSUPPORTI am a new user of Arch Linux, and my system crashes when I try to start a Windows virtual machine (VM) using QEMU/KVM. The VM freezes during a Windows update, and the mouse becomes unresponsive. After forcing a power off and reboot, I get disk errors, and the filesystem becomes read-only. I am trying to recover my system, but I am not sure how to proceed. This is actually the second time this issue has occurred. The first crash happened during a Windows update in the VM as well, and the system behavior was the same: after rebooting, the filesystem became read-only, and I had to reinstall the entire system.1. System Environment:Operating System:Arch LinuxDesktop Environment:KDEFilesystem:BtrfsKernel Version:linux-lts 6.12.66-1Virtualization Tool:QEMU/KVMWindows VM:Windows 11 Enterprise LTSC 2024GPU Passthrough:Nvidia GPU passthrough using kvmfr module with Looking Glass , I also have an additional Intel integrated graphics card for the host system2. Problem Description:The system freezes during a Windows update process in the VM, which is running under QEMU/KVM. The VM shows the "Updating" screen, then freezes, and the mouse stops moving. The system becomes unresponsive, and I have to force a reboot.After rebooting, I get disk errors, and all files have become read-only.I booted into a rescue system and collected the journalctl -p 4 logs, which contain important information. I am not sure if QEMU is causing the issue, so I saved the entire journalctl -p 4 logs and have attached them here for further analysis.Note: The coredump files are too large to attach, and there are many different coredumps. I have only included the logs for now. If you need the original coredump files or any other information, please let me know, and I will provide them.Here is the log3. Steps Taken:Disk Check:I ran smartctl, but it did not show any errors.System Logs:I collected the journalctl -p 4 logs, which I think are relevant to the crash.Memory Test:The night before the crash, I ran MemTest86 overnight, and it didn't show any errors.4. Problem Guess:Disk Issues:The filesystem turning read-only could be caused by filesystem corruption (possibly Btrfs), but I am unsure why the filesystem suddenly became corrupted.KVM/QEMU Configuration:I am not sure if QEMU is the cause of the issue, but the crash always seems to happen during a Windows update process. This could be related to the GPU passthrough or resource allocation for the VM.5. Seeking Help On:Log Analysis:Could you help me analyze the journalctl -p 4 logs to find out what caused the system crash?Coredump Analysis:Could you also analyze the original coredump files to help identify the cause of the crash? I have many different coredumps and will provide them if needed.Disk Recovery:What are the best steps to fix a read-only Btrfs filesystem and recover my data?Virtualization Settings:Can you suggest any changes to my QEMU/KVM setup, especially with the GPU passthrough using the kvmfr module? I am using Nvidia GPU passthrough with Looking Glass, and I think this might be causing the problem.Recovery Steps:What would you recommend as the next steps to restore the system and prevent this issue from happening again?6. Additional Information:Resource Allocation:I have allocated a GPU to the Windows VM using kvmfr for the framebuffer. Could allocating too many resources to the VM cause the system to crash?Note: The coredump files are too large to attach here, but I have many different coredumps. Please let me know if you need them.
Suggestion for either arch linux or fedora Suggestion for either arch linux or fedorau/Academic_Answer5581•22 days agoSuggestion for either arch linux or fedoraSUPPORTSo i am guy passionate about system programming mainly, embedded systems and game dev. so what you suggest should i change to arch linux. Or stay at fedora linux. I really want to try the arch linux
Mouse problem. Mouse problem.u/NinjaNewuo•10 days agoMouse problem.SUPPORTMy mouse isn't moving, it's just clicking, what should I do?
Switching from Linux to windows Switching from Linux to windowsu/Charming-Service-723•10 days agoSwitching from Linux to windowsSUPPORThello I am using arch Linux but I need to switch to windows for my work is there any way to save the arch Linux on a different drive so when I want/can switch back to Linux I will have the same set up as I have right now ? any ideas ?
Multi-GPU setup Multi-GPU setupu/metl_play•15 days agoMulti-GPU setupSUPPORTMulti-GPU setupr/arch•15 days agoMulti-GPU setupHello everyone and everything,I just now became a multi GPU user and face a problem.First my GPUs:AMD RX 7900XTX -> Slot 1Intel Arc A380 -> Slot 2I wanted to use my primary display on the AMD while having the other two on the Intel.Intel is always shown as GPU1. When I have my displays setup as described, my main display is stuttering. Starting up Minecraft via Prism Launcher will use the Intel card.I was able to set up envs to have AMD forcibly be the one used, but that ends up with same performance as using Intel. (30something FPS instead of around 144).Using all displays on AMD is working as expected.I realized that my DM has to render the full desktop on one GPU and then spit out the result through the outputs and that this will be the reason.I wonder if it is possible to have separate sessions per GPU (or something along those lines) and then make it behave much like one, so I can have more displays than one GPU has outputs and "load balance" them.lspci | grep VGA 11:00.0 VGA compatible controller: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD/ATI] Navi 31 [Radeon RX 7900 XT/7900 XTX/7900 GRE/7900M] (rev c8) 14:00.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation DG2 [Arc A380] (rev 05)My assumption is no or only very painfully(to some degree manageable).---------- OS: Arch Linux x86_64 Host: X570 Taichi Kernel: Linux 6.18.7-arch1-1 Uptime: 34 mins Packages: 1656 (pacman), 35 (flatpak) Shell: bash 5.3.9 Display (PHL 27M1F5800): 3840x2160 in 27", 144Hz [External] Display (2270W): 1920x1080 in 22", 60 Hz [External] Display (DELL P2414H): 1920x1080 in 24", 60 Hz [External] DE: KDE Plasma 6.5.5 WM: KWin (Wayland) WM Theme: PurPurNight-Aurorae-6 Theme: Breeze (1762086239922_PurPurNightColorscheme) [Qt], PurPurNight-GTK [GTK2/3/4] Icons: Slot-Dark-Icons [Qt], Slot-Dark-Icons [GTK2/3/4] Font: Noto Sans (10pt) [Qt], Noto Sans (10pt) [GTK2/3/4] Cursor: breeze (24px) Terminal: konsole 25.12.1 CPU: AMD Ryzen 9 5900X (24) @ 4.95 GHz GPU 1: Intel Arc A380 @ 2.45 GHz [Discrete] GPU 2: AMD Radeon RX 7900 XTX [Discrete] Memory: 6.49 GiB / 62.71 GiB (10%) Swap: 6.70 MiB / 4.00 GiB (0%) Disk (/): 607.00 GiB / 1.78 TiB (33%) - btrfs Disk (/mnt/4tbn): 2.54 TiB / 3.64 TiB (70%) - ntfs3 Disk (/mnt/4tbs): 721.48 GiB / 3.73 TiB (19%) - ntfs3 Local IP (enp9s0): xxx Locale: de_DE.UTF-8I am very sorry if this is a frequent question, my search and GPT wasn't very helpful if there is a true solution instead of: "Nah every display has to be on one card and if you want more than four outputs too bad so sad, cry me a river" -> Not an actual quote, but it feels like it.4upvotes
Linux workflows, customization, gaming Linux workflows, customization, gamingu/Imgunnacrumb•22 days agoLinux workflows, customization, gamingQUESTIONI was daily driving Windows for most of life, working in tech I have used Linux a decent amount. I made the switch over on one of my drives and now have come to the unfortunate stage of what distro. Ive tried Ubuntu, Ive tried KDE Plasma via CachyOS and Hyprland along with a couple others over the years. I like the idea of hyprland customization but cant really think of workflows to build utilizing the tiling. I liked KDE Plasma because it had a lot of customization options, and those are the only two I really liked. A solid majority of my free time is spent gaming or tinkering so, I am thinking either KDE Plasma and removing all the things i consider bloat or trying to stick it out with hyprland and make use of the tiling or just have the windows float and make rules as I find I need them. The final option would be a base arch install, adding cachyos repos and choosing whatever.Looking for any suggestions from my thought process or for options I havent listed before I decide on one. Basically I want a linux desktop where I get to choose whats added and this is where my inexperience shows.
Archinstall fall Archinstall fallu/Bu-Foon•22 days agoArchinstall fallSUPPORTHey everyone, good night!  Has anyone had issues while installing Arch using archinstall?  I'm trying to make the process faster with archinstall, but it gets stuck forever waiting for time synchronization (the "Waiting for automatic time synchronization" step).  It says something like "Waiting to complete time sync (timedatectl show)" and just hangs there — I've waited over 2 hours and nothing happens.  I already tried skipping it with archinstall --skip-ntp, but even then it still waits (or gets stuck in mirror selection / keyring sync).  My connection is Wi-Fi with some packet loss (~10%) and higher latency, but ping to archlinux.org works fine.  Could it be the ISO I downloaded? Or is it a known issue with slow/unstable connections?  Anyone solved something similar? Thanks in advance!
Gnome on Lenovo IdeaPad Flex Gnome on Lenovo IdeaPad Flexu/munchmunchmanepic•7 days agoGnome on Lenovo IdeaPad FlexQUESTIONI was wondering if I were to install gnome arch on my Lenovo IdeaPad flex(specifically a Lenovo IdeaPad Flex 5 14ABR8), would I need any extra drivers or would the touchscreen and wifi be ok?
User doesn’t exist User doesn’t existu/Master_Primary_1507•22 days agoUser doesn’t existSUPPORTI recently had a problem either grub so I went through a painful process and now my laprop boots. For some reason whenever i typped my password it got it as incorrect.What seemed to to the job is: -while in grub menu press e -type “init=/bin/bash at the end of the line that starts with “linux” -$mount -n -o remount, rw / -$passwd root -$exec /sbin/initNow I can login with root but still can’t with my user. If I try to run passwd <user> i get user doesn’t exist.I have tried: -Chrooting from live iso and passwd -faillock —reset -login from all 6 ttyFurther info: i used /bin/bash but my user uses zsh, i have btrfs and my boot partition is vfat, i have zram, no luks or furthe encryption.Please any help is really appreciated. What should I try???
Wi-Fi stays connected but internet drops intermittently Wi-Fi stays connected but internet drops intermittentlyu/Kd_Gaming1•14 days agoWi-Fi stays connected but internet drops intermittentlySUPPORTHey, I need some help troubleshooting Wi-Fi issues on Linux.The main symptom is that wireless suddenly stops working. I stay connected to the Wi-Fi network, but there is no internet access. I cannot find any clear errors in journalctl. From what I can tell, the connection still shows as active even while networking is not working.The network often recovers on its own after one or two minutes, sometimes faster. During this time, it switches between having internet access and not having it, even though the connection itself appears to stay active the whole time. I also noticed that restarting NetworkManager brings the connection back immediately.Any ideas on what could cause this or how to debug it further?Wifi card: Intel AX210
arch vs nixos arch vs nixosu/ImHighOnCocaine•22 days agoarch vs nixosQUESTIONarch vs nixos unstablewhich is the better daily driver? i personally use my machine for general use, and development. i usually pick a distro by how much packages it has, how much linux software prioritizes it. how up to date it is, how much maintenance it needs to use it, how fast its package manager is, and unique features if it has it!(hopefully this isn’t too vague)
Monitor doesn't wakeup in my laptop Monitor doesn't wakeup in my laptopu/ToeOk6630•23 days agoMonitor doesn't wakeup in my laptopSUPPORTI have a monitor xiaomi redmi G pro 27u p27uda rgp with os and laptop Asus tuf gaming f15 fx516pe-hn004 nvidia+Intel. Arch hyprland sddm; the monitor wakes up only after I take out and insert the hdmi cable. I can't set up normal operation in any way. The monitor in grub is forced to listen constantly. I've been killing two days with forums and AI with no result. Who can help
How to learn Arch the right way. How to learn Arch the right way.u/OnTop80•22 days agoHow to learn Arch the right way.QUESTIONI wonder how to learn Arch because it seems to be like an open world with no compass. I was told to check Arch wiki, but I can't understand a single word. Like I don't get it, do I have to be a computer engineer to understand Arch. To understand Arch, I have to know what exactly, how the CPU/RAM/SSD/GPU works in details or what. To conclude, I'm lost
Rubiks Cube timer cross-platform - Linux app desktop Rubiks Cube timer cross-platform - Linux app desktopu/DeviceRecent3456•18 days agoRubiks Cube timer cross-platform - Linux app desktopSHARERubik's cube timer developed with React and Tauri, cross-platform avalable in :Arch linuxDebianUbuntuetcEzer timer :https://github.com/ezerfrlux/ezer-cube-timer/releases/tag/1.0.0
Community thoughts on bore-scheduler and using with Gentoo // Discussion Community thoughts on bore-scheduler and using with Gentoo // Discussionu/segfaulting•3 hr. agoCommunity thoughts on bore-scheduler and using with Gentoo // DiscussionDiscussionHello Gentooers.I've been OOTL for a while not really keeping up with the *nix sphere news. But in the past year a distro I never heard of CachyOS has exploded in popularity (current #1 on distrowatch). Reading about it's scheduler makes me interested in how it could be integrated with Gentoo.I knowzen-kernelis popular here but has anyone tried using CachyOS's kernel or just addingbore-schedulerto Gentoo's native kernel?How does it compare with zen?
Got my kernel down to 15M… Got my kernel down to 15M…u/poeticg33k•5 days agoGot my kernel down to 15M…Screenshot
Gentoo Wallpaper  — 7680×5120 PNG (Ultra High-Res) Gentoo Wallpaper  — 7680×5120 PNG (Ultra High-Res)u/Cicileu-Senior•16 hr. agoGentoo Wallpaper  — 7680×5120 PNG (Ultra High-Res)News
I love Gentooooo I love Gentooooou/arlitki•24 days agoI love GentoooooNews
i love purple i love purpleu/Ok_Resolve2786•19 hr. agoi love purpleScreenshot
Happens to the best of us Happens to the best of usu/MeiwingSuku•2 days agoHappens to the best of usMeme
complete compilation of gentoo 🇨🇱 complete compilation of gentoo 🇨🇱u/elpiscolero1•23 hr. agocomplete compilation of gentoo 🇨🇱Screenshot
Fixed not booting gentoo in Grub. Now stucked in root terminal without internet conection. Fixed not booting gentoo in Grub. Now stucked in root terminal without internet conection.u/Leonardodafernandez•4 hr. agoFixed not booting gentoo in Grub. Now stucked in root terminal without internet conection.Supportin summary my LiveCd key (usb installer) die in middle on a aptempt of repairing Grub with another distro liveCd terminal. And after that i probably passed like 3 or 4 hours using GRUB terminal commands and forcing a kernel boot (it worked, but probably was so slow because the system password get bugged and need to create a new one again and again in an emergency terminal). So, after that i log in like localhost, but is system terminal only, and not have internet access, if i try for example "ping -c google.com" i get an "temporaly unresolved host name" and can't use "emerge" for install pkgs or libs.emergency terminal process was like this:ls(hs0) ( hd1,gpt1) (hd1,gpt2) <--- This is drives partitionsset root=(hd1,gpt2)linux /boot/kernel-6.12.63-gentoo-dist root=/dev/sdb2 init=/bin/sh <-loading kernel. "init=/bin/sh" enabled emergency terminal, without that comand is a log in terminal.initrd /boot/initramfs-6.12.63-gentoo-dist.img boot <-loading initramfsAfter that i get a terminal and need to enable disk writing (that terminal was in only read mode, but i forgeted the command to enable writing mode)
Gentoo logo appreciation post Gentoo logo appreciation postu/Giggio417•15 days agoGentoo logo appreciation postDiscussion
*sigh* Up all night, first time installation from 2+ years into daily driving NixOS, and then... *sigh* Up all night, first time installation from 2+ years into daily driving NixOS, and then...u/papershruums•2 days ago*sigh* Up all night, first time installation from 2+ years into daily driving NixOS, and then...Discussion
Proud of myself Proud of myselfu/ScoobySnaks•4 days agoProud of myselfDiscussion
well.. They migrate hyprland packages to another overlay.. gotta be fun.. well.. They migrate hyprland packages to another overlay.. gotta be fun..u/OldPhotograph3382•2 days agowell.. They migrate hyprland packages to another overlay.. gotta be fun..News
That was hell guys… That was hell guys…u/FinancialCourt953•2 days agoThat was hell guys…Screenshot
Urgent help, backup for gentoo handbook Urgent help, backup for gentoo handbooku/Bubbly_Extreme4986•2 days agoUrgent help, backup for gentoo handbookSupportSo I was installing gentoo when all of a sudden the handbook site 502d now I’m stuck partway through an install that I need done tonight and with no way of getting the install instructions.No, the internet archive didn’t have itI got it to barely work on my phone and finished the install fine.Apparently it is on the Internet archive
Found gentoo logo in ad Found gentoo logo in adu/TehMasterer01•9 days agoFound gentoo logo in adMeme
I really like gentoo I really like gentoou/Historical_Visit138•2 days agoI really like gentooSupportI wanna use it more but I’m so used pacman, auris there any other package manager gentoo has except emerge and flatpak?
Audacity playback not working Audacity playback not workingu/zTonin•8 days agoAudacity playback not workingSupportI installed Gentoo recently and tried to use Audacity, but when I click on 'Play' to listen the audio, I can't hear anything.I use Pipewire as sound server by the way, and everything else seems to work, except Audacity.
First time posting my Gentoo installation First time posting my Gentoo installationu/Illustrious_Bag_32•21 days agoFirst time posting my Gentoo installationScreenshot
Is gentoo hard because it requires me to understand my computer better, or it is mainly distro specific factors? Is gentoo hard because it requires me to understand my computer better, or it is mainly distro specific factors?u/YashbeerX008•8 days agoIs gentoo hard because it requires me to understand my computer better, or it is mainly distro specific factors?SupportI have been using Arch for 1.5 years now, and considering shifting to Gentoo. I have heard it's hard but that's not a factor. I want to know if it allows me to use my computer better.Some distros are hard not because you control your computer, but because the distro have weird ways to work and managing that hard.Arch was hard because I was responsible for my computer.I would appreciate any help you guys can give me whether switching to Gentoo help me understand my computer better or I would be managing distro specific quirks.
Gentoo on Macbook M1 Gentoo on Macbook M1u/karnacademy•19 days agoGentoo on Macbook M1Screenshot
Is this possible Is this possibleu/Next-Buyer-9008•9 days agoIs this possibleSupportI was using gentoo and my computer stopped working, i was in sddm then got kicked to tty, I tried to run sudo but the dir wasn't found including my home. I am the only one who knows my password and I wasn't logged in. Is this possible?
I guess this is kind of cursed? I guess this is kind of cursed?u/TheRealCarrotty•14 days agoI guess this is kind of cursed?Screenshot
Install gentoo on 18 years old cpu (intel centrino2) Install gentoo on 18 years old cpu (intel centrino2)u/Strict-Potential-709•10 days agoInstall gentoo on 18 years old cpu (intel centrino2)Screenshot
Gentoo is very stable and very very fast Gentoo is very stable and very very fastu/sFannyosx•22 days agoGentoo is very stable and very very fastStory
You are welcome tobre reminded You are welcome tobre remindedu/Yha_Boiii•12 days agoYou are welcome tobre remindedMeme
Newbie seeking guidance for a minimalist, portable Gentoo build on old Acer Aspire One Newbie seeking guidance for a minimalist, portable Gentoo build on old Acer Aspire Oneu/ElViejoDelCyro•10 days agoNewbie seeking guidance for a minimalist, portable Gentoo build on old Acer Aspire OneSupportHello,I'm planning a project and would greatly appreciate some advice from thecommunity. My goal is to set up a very portable, low-value Gentoo systemfor use on the go. My Hardware Target: I'm looking at buying a used Acer Aspire One ZG5.I chose it because it's cheap, and if stolen, it would be prettyuseless without my specific knowledge. It has modest specs (likely anIntel Atom, 1GB RAM).My Software Goals:A fully custom, libre Linux kernel compiled from source with OpenRC.A very lightweight graphical environment. I'm considering Xlib or other minimal window managers (suggestions welcome).Core tools: glibc, bash, etc.Applications: Emacs (my editor/OS of choice!), Abiword, a web browser (tosty, netsurf, surf, falkon), RSS reader, VLC/MPV.To manage the limited 1GB RAM: ZRAM and pre-loading key apps into RAM.I'd like to integrate Guixpackage manager alongside Portage for binaries of heavy programs (e.g.,some games), while compiling core/system software myself. My Challenges / Where I Need Help:I'm relatively new to building a system from this level. The closest I'vedone is compiling Void Linux via chroot with a guided process.Kernel Configuration: This is my biggest hurdle. I don't know how to systematically strip down the kernel to onlywhat my specific Acer Aspire One ZG5 hardware needs to make it as leanas possible. How do I identify necessary drivers/modules?The Gentoo "From Scratch" Process:I've never built a Gentoo stage or installation from the ground up.While I'll practice in a QEMU VM on my Lenovo x200 first, practicaladvice on the initial steps for such old hardware would be gold.Language Barrier:My native language is Spanish. While there are Spanish resources, theyoften don't go into the depth I need for this project. Englishdocumentation is vast, but I struggle with it. If anyone knows ofparticularly clear, practical guides (in English or Spanish) or canexplain concepts in simpler terms, it would help immensely.General Suggestions:For my use case (old netbook, lightweight desktop, maximum control),are there specific USE flags, kernel options, or software alternativesyou would strongly recommend or warn against?Myplan is to test everything in a VM with QEMU before touching realhardware. I'm eager to learn and would be thankful for any pointers,warnings, or shared experiences from those who've done similar builds.Thank you for your time and wisdom.
Finally, after 5 hours, i installed Gentoo with my own custom kernel! Finally, after 5 hours, i installed Gentoo with my own custom kernel!u/matrixisme_1•22 days agoFinally, after 5 hours, i installed Gentoo with my own custom kernel!Screenshot
Finally compiled Gentoo and Kde! (also i installed void linux on my thinkpad in the meantime) Finally compiled Gentoo and Kde! (also i installed void linux on my thinkpad in the meantime)u/MeiwingSuku•6 days agoFinally compiled Gentoo and Kde! (also i installed void linux on my thinkpad in the meantime)Screenshot
5th Installation 5th Installationu/Roman_og•1 mo. ago5th InstallationScreenshot
Mix binary packages and compile? Mix binary packages and compile?u/Cyclolysis•11 days agoMix binary packages and compile?SupportHello! Is it safe to mix certain compiler and binary packages (for example, starting with a binary package and then updating it by compiling it)?
Raspberry Pi Raspberry Piu/Elegant-Manager2102•11 days agoRaspberry PiSupportI recently remembered that I have an old mini-computer with a raspberry pi. I wanted to install Linux for some time already, and thought that the Pi would be an ideal environment, as I would lose nothing of importance if something went wrong. But the Pi doesn't have a monitor, so this is my situation:I have a monitor and a TV. The Pi can't connect to the monitor and the necessary chain of adapters would be expensive. I have an old Thinkpad though which can connect to the monitor. I can also connect the Pi to the TV, but I can't use it permanently, as others use it too. So the idea would be to set up the Pi and then connect it through the internet with the Thinkpad to show the graphical interface on the monitor.But because I am new to Gentoo as a Distro and the necessary setup to be able to connect it to the Thinkpad would probably take a bit, this approach seems very impractical. So my question is:Is there some easier way to connect the Pi to another monitor or laptop?
Thinking about a switch to Gentoo but need advice Thinking about a switch to Gentoo but need adviceu/MD90__•13 days agoThinking about a switch to Gentoo but need adviceDiscussionI'm currently on void and it's been nice but they don't support much and with that things like hyprland are harder to get because they don't support all the version changes on dependencies. I was thinking what I like about void is stability and such but it is limited. I saw how well documented Gentoo stuff is and great community support and such which made me wonder if Gentoo was something for me. The only draw back for me with Gentoo is the compiling especially bigger packages like browsers and such. I have a ryzen 7 5700G and 16gb ram. I tried to compile some things with slackbuilds on slackware and it did ok with qemu and virt manager but I ran out of memory trying to watch YouTube on firefox while gnome-boxes tried to compile. That makes me believe I could handle Gentoo but with some constraints. My goal is to really learn Linux and maybe try openrc since runit isn't too bad. I want to really learn things like bash and such. Eventually get back into programming and help contribute to a distro.With all that said, would Gentoo be a good switch over void?
Just installed gentoo for the first and I’m so happy about it Just installed gentoo for the first and I’m so happy about itu/blokeofqais•24 days agoJust installed gentoo for the first and I’m so happy about itScreenshot
Binary Gentoo (the right way) Binary Gentoo (the right way)u/Silent-Degree-6072•5 days agoBinary Gentoo (the right way)Screenshot
compare bin distro with gentoo in terms of performance compare bin distro with gentoo in terms of performanceu/FindingKitchen4734•14 days agocompare bin distro with gentoo in terms of performanceDiscussionis there any chart showing the performance gain from gentoo compared to bin distros?
Finished Gentoo on my Pentium D lol Finished Gentoo on my Pentium D lolu/Impasta1_GD•1 mo. agoFinished Gentoo on my Pentium D lolScreenshot
Enable fingerprint authentication for sudo and polkit dialogues Enable fingerprint authentication for sudo and polkit dialoguesu/Automaticpotatoboy•15 days agoEnable fingerprint authentication for sudo and polkit dialoguesSupportSOLVED: I addedauth sufficient pam_fprintd.soto the/etc/pam/system-authfileHow can I enable fingerprint authentication for sudo prompts and KDE polkit dialogues?I have it working for login.
Cannot install grub on a fresh system with latest stage3 Cannot install grub on a fresh system with latest stage3u/ichinose-chiya•16 days agoCannot install grub on a fresh system with latest stage3SupportHi there, I'm trying to install Gentoo on a new device, and I got this while compiling thesys-boot/grub:core/osdep/linux/hostdisk.c:104:23: error: implicit declaration of function ‘major’ [-Wimplicit-function-declaration] 104 | major (st.st_rdev), minor (st.st_rdev), entry); | ^~~~~ /var/tmp/portage/sys-boot/grub-2.12-r11/work/grub-2.12/grub-core/osdep/linux/hostdisk.c:104:23: warning: nested extern declaration of ‘major’ [-Wnested-externs] /var/tmp/portage/sys-boot/grub-2.12-r11/work/grub-2.12/grub-core/osdep/linux/hostdisk.c:104:43: error: implicit declaration of function ‘minor’ [-Wimplicit-function-declaration] 104 | major (st.st_rdev), minor (st.st_rdev), entry); | ^~~~~ /var/tmp/portage/sys-boot/grub-2.12-r11/work/grub-2.12/grub-core/osdep/linux/hostdisk.c:104:43: warning: nested extern declaration of ‘minor’ [-Wnested-externs] make[2]: *** [Makefile:6994: grub-core/osdep/libgrubkern_a-hostdisk.o] Error 1 make[2]: *** Waiting for unfinished jobs....I tried to use the latest grub (2.14) with~amd64, but it still failed to compile, with similar error as below:core/osdep/linux/hostdisk.c:104:23: error: implicit declaration of function ‘major’ [-Wimplicit-function-declaration] 104 | major (st.st_rdev), minor (st.st_rdev), entry); | ^~~~~ /var/tmp/portage/sys-boot/grub-2.14/work/grub-2.14/grub-core/osdep/linux/hostdisk.c:104:23: warning: nested extern declaration of ‘major’ [-Wnested-externs] /var/tmp/portage/sys-boot/grub-2.14/work/grub-2.14/grub-core/osdep/linux/hostdisk.c:104:43: error: implicit declaration of function ‘minor’ [-Wimplicit-function-declaration] 104 | major (st.st_rdev), minor (st.st_rdev), entry); | ^~~~~ /var/tmp/portage/sys-boot/grub-2.14/work/grub-2.14/grub-core/osdep/linux/hostdisk.c:104:43: warning: nested extern declaration of ‘minor’ [-Wnested-externs] make[2]: *** [Makefile:7493: grub-core/osdep/libgrubkern_a-hostdisk.o] Error 1 make[2]: Leaving directory '/var/tmp/portage/sys-boot/grub-2.14/work/grub-2.14-efi-64' make[1]: *** [Makefile:12798: all-recursive] Error 1 make[1]: Leaving directory '/var/tmp/portage/sys-boot/grub-2.14/work/grub-2.14-efi-64' make: *** [Makefile:4134: all] Error 2 * ERROR: sys-boot/grub-2.14::gentoo failed (compile phase): * emake failedMy compiler is stage3's default gcc:gcc (Gentoo 15.2.1_p20251122 p3) 15.2.1 20251122 Copyright (C) 2025 Free Software Foundation, Inc. This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.How could I solve this?Edit: Finally I figure this out. The-mtune=x86-64may have some unseen effects on the compiler, and cracked the normal compilation pipeline, though this flag has not been fully deprecated yet. When I changed this to-mtune=generic, the problem goes. Looks like this might be an internal bug in gcc?
Having problems installing Qt Having problems installing Qtu/Key_Canary_4199•23 days agoHaving problems installing QtSupportHello!I tried installing lxqt, but that fails when it tries to install Qt.here is the emerge --info:https://pastebin.com/f1v7jStahere is the emerge -pqv: [ebuild  N    ] dev-qt/qtbase-6.10.1  USE="X concurrent dbus gui icu libinput libproxy network nls opengl sql sqlite ssl udev wayland widgets xml (zstd) -accessibility -brotli -cups -custom-cflags -eglfs -evdev -gles2-only -gssapi -gtk -journald -mysql -oci8 -odbc -postgres -renderdoc -sctp -syslog -test -tslib -vulkan"* IMPORTANT: 2 news items need reading for repository 'gentoo'.* Use eselect news read to view new items.here is the build log:https://pastebin.com/gSfZmiJEand here is the enviroment file:https://pastebin.com/RcQRmctQI hope somebody can help me!
Second successful gentoo install and honestly im loving gnome Second successful gentoo install and honestly im loving gnomeu/No-Bedroom-7821•26 days agoSecond successful gentoo install and honestly im loving gnomeScreenshot
What made you use Gentoo? What made you use Gentoo?u/Cyclolysis•6 days agoWhat made you use Gentoo?Discussion
Is musl worth it on gentoo? Is musl worth it on gentoo?u/GuiltyVisit9119•26 days agoIs musl worth it on gentoo?Discussion?
Any tips how to optimise Gentoo for gaming? Any tips how to optimise Gentoo for gaming?u/C1REX•17 hr. agoAny tips how to optimise Gentoo for gaming?SupportHi,I’m looking for some simple ways to optimise my Gentoo for gaming. To have access to the newest gaming features and optimisations.To be more precise: I want to keep my Gentoo in stable branch mostly and just unmask key components like kernel or mesa or whatever else needed. ~amd64, gentoo overlay, or 9999.Maybe some other simple tweaks I’m not aware of yet?Should I go for mesa9999 from overlays?I have 7800x3D and 7900xtx if that matters.Many thanks :)
Is it possible to install gentoo without the full base system ? Is it possible to install gentoo without the full base system ?u/GuiltyVisit9119•26 days agoIs it possible to install gentoo without the full base system ?DiscussionIs it possible to only install components i need?
I Am Officially A Gentoo User! I Am Officially A Gentoo User!u/Total-Hyena-6354•1 mo. agoI Am Officially A Gentoo User!Discussion
If you turn it sideways it looks like the Gentoo Linux logo If you turn it sideways it looks like the Gentoo Linux logou/SuccessfulRiver1850•4 days agoIf you turn it sideways it looks like the Gentoo Linux logoMeme
Libreboot Gentoo x230 Libreboot Gentoo x230u/No_Patient_5714•9 days agoLibreboot Gentoo x230Discussion
Finally!!! Finally!!!u/Proton-Lightin•6 days agoFinally!!!Screenshot
Cosmic x Gentoo install Cosmic x Gentoo installu/real_sTaGEE•17 days agoCosmic x Gentoo installScreenshot
Any hardcore minimalist here? Any hardcore minimalist here?u/GuiltyVisit9119•26 days agoAny hardcore minimalist here?DiscussionHow much low ram usage did you achieve?
Gentoo is exactly what I needed Gentoo is exactly what I neededu/Dr_Moo•18 days agoGentoo is exactly what I neededDiscussion
First time installing Gentoo, but... First time installing Gentoo, but...u/pastrefrola•17 days agoFirst time installing Gentoo, but...Support
I installed gentoo I installed gentoou/Ok-Raspberry-639•5 days agoI installed gentooScreenshot
First time Gentoo user! First time Gentoo user!u/3hy_•8 days agoFirst time Gentoo user!Screenshot
How do you guys deal with musl not compitable with most softwares? How do you guys deal with musl not compitable with most softwares?u/GuiltyVisit9119•26 days agoHow do you guys deal with musl not compitable with most softwares?DiscussionAn alternate repo?
Gentoo Installer with different flavours Gentoo Installer with different flavoursu/alex22dz•27 days agoGentoo Installer with different flavoursDevelopmentHello Gentoo users and enthusiasts!This is my first post and I want to share with you a project I’ve made: a collection of scripts to install Gentoo. It requires a lot of patience since it compiles all the system’s packages, including its applications. There are different versions to install: KDE Plasma, XFCE, GNOME, and a console-only version for servers or if you want a basic Gentoo installation and then build your system from that point to suit your needs. Honestly, it’s nothing extraordinary—the code is a bit embarrassing to show (it could definitely be better)—but it works well.I created these scripts based on my personal needs, but maybe someone else will find them useful, and I’d be glad to know that. I also recognize that this isn’t the only project of its kind; there have been many attempts to create scripts that make Gentoo installation easier. However, I haven’t found any project that does exactly what I’m doing (compiling the entire operating system along with its desktops). Honestly, don’t take my word too seriously here—I didn’t do an exhaustive search.I like Gentoo’s philosophy: you can have your own tailor-made system.emergeis fantastic, and above all, compiling packages for your processor gives you optimization in the tasks you run. Of course, once you’ve gone through the installation process several times, you get bored of doing the same thing over and over again. That was the reason I created this collection of scripts.If this is your first time with Gentoo, I highly recommend reading the officialhandbookthoroughly, since you’ll learn a lot about GNU/Linux. Leave this kind of shortcut to old folks like me who are already looking to retire.I repeat: these scripts are not perfect, but they get the job done, and I hope to keep improving them. I hope you enjoy them as much as I enjoyed making and testing them.GitHub Repo:https://github.com/Alexdaz/GentooInstallHappy Gentoo Install!P.S. Don’t cancel me for using VMWare, I repeat, I’m an old man of 28 who’s looking to retire ;p
New installation refusing from boot New installation refusing from bootu/Leonardodafernandez•20 hr. agoNew installation refusing from bootSupportActually installed Gentoo by minimal ISO image, and installed pre-compiled kernel and linux-firmware. But Gentoo not apears in Grub when booting so that created a loop of entering and exiting the bios, and after that i use the livecd key (Usb installer) and try to repair in the comand console, same thing again.Somebody have some tip about this?Pc specs (btw) i5-6500 16gb ddr4 256gb ssd sata 500gb hdd
Portage is awesome Portage is awesomeu/spinosarus123•6 days agoPortage is awesomeStoryI was dreading deploying my project written in Python because it's always a mess. It turns out that all I had to do was write a 10 line ebuild, and Portage knows where to put all the Python files and binaries. I love this distro.
finally switched to Gentoo! (+ ObsidianOS) finally switched to Gentoo! (+ ObsidianOS)u/Yousifasd22•4 days agofinally switched to Gentoo! (+ ObsidianOS)Screenshot
First ever Gentoo install First ever Gentoo installu/reines_sein•23 days agoFirst ever Gentoo installScreenshot
Why gentoo use a custom and not upstream kernel? Every distro seems to do that tho Why gentoo use a custom and not upstream kernel? Every distro seems to do that thou/bloomingFemme•28 days agoWhy gentoo use a custom and not upstream kernel? Every distro seems to do that thoDiscussion
script that installs the tilix terminal on gentoo script that installs the tilix terminal on gentoou/prettyoddoz•28 days agoscript that installs the tilix terminal on gentooDevelopmenthttps://github.com/howtoedittv/tilix-gentooyou can also just do this manually by following the guide on the GitHub page or heresudo emerge -q dev-vcs/git wget app-eselect/eselect-repositorysudo eselect repository enable dlangsudo emerge --sync dlangecho "dev-lang/dmd ~amd64" | sudo tee -a /etc/portage/package.accept_keywords/dmdecho "app-eselect/eselect-dlang ~amd64" | sudo tee -a /etc/portage/package.accept_keywords/eselect-dlangsudo emerge -q x11-libs/vte:2.91 dmdcd ~wgethttps://github.com/dlang/dub/releases/download/v1.40.0/dub-v1.40.0-linux-x86_64.tar.gztar -xvf ~/dub-v1.40.0-linux-x86_64.tar.gzrm ~/dub-v1.40.0-linux-x86_64.tar.gzsudo mv ~/dub /usr/binsudo chmod +x /usr/bin/dubgit clonehttps://github.com/gnunn1/tilix.gitcd tilixdub build --build=releasesudo ./install.shsudo mv ~/tilix/tilix /usr/bin/hope this help anyoneEdit: I swear to God y'all are the most inconsiderate selfish ungrateful motherfuckers if you want an ebuild make one your damn self not everyone knows how to build that shit. No one is forcing you to follow this giude if you have a better way to install tillix write a post yourself
Can someone help me? Can someone help me?[deleted]•1 mo. agoCan someone help me?SupportI have a problem starting steam games (system audio simply stops working and only restarts)I'm a lay user, I tried to solve it by gpt chat but it didn't give much result, link to my conversation if necessary:Https://chatgpt.com/share/696913e4-56e8-8005-ade1-9dd4d61a689bI really don't know what to do HELPI know it's not something exclusive to Gentoo, but Gentoo users usually tend to know more than the others, so I posted it here...
Made this on my free time 🙏 Made this on my free time 🙏u/zTonin•15 days agoMade this on my free time 🙏Screenshot
I've paid an artist to do it. Can I contribute such work to the official Gentoo wallpapers? She is happy to do more. (Please, grab it if you like it) I've paid an artist to do it. Can I contribute such work to the official Gentoo wallpapers? She is happy to do more. (Please, grab it if you like it)u/C1REX•1 mo. agoI've paid an artist to do it. Can I contribute such work to the official Gentoo wallpapers? She is happy to do more. (Please, grab it if you like it)Screenshot
Weird emerge bug? Weird emerge bug?u/Bubbly_Extreme4986•1 day agoWeird emerge bug?Support
Gentoo help needed Gentoo help neededu/Next-Buyer-9008•1 mo. agoGentoo help neededSupportI recently installed gentoo about 1 weeks ago and somehow collapsed my os and my bootloader. I am an AI developer who has messed around in many distros over the course of 2 years. I am currently trying to fix my install and I was wondering if I can get advice on what not to do. Note that the error had to do with me reformatting my external drive and it broke my os to the point where the kernel curroptred somehow.
Gentoo test XE on Alder Lake Gentoo test XE on Alder Lakeu/Used-Fortune1125•1 day agoGentoo test XE on Alder LakeDiscussionWhat did I solve? The problem was observed.[drm] Tile0: GT0: Engine reset: engine_class=rcs... [drm] Tile0: GT0: Timedout job... [drm] Xe device coredump has been created[drm] Tile0: GT0: Engine reset: engine_class=rcs... [drm] Tile0: GT0: Timedout job... [drm] Xe device coredump has been createdAs a result, everything is stable now, including in games.I'm relatively new to Gentoo, having been using it since the New Year. I'd appreciate your tips and advice!My stack and configsNiri + Noctalia Shell + systemd + grub + networkmanager + nftables + dbus-broker + pipewire + btrfs + doas + dracut + QEMU/KVM/etc/portage/make.confCOMMON_FLAGS="-march=alderlake -O3 -flto=16 -pipe -mabm -mno-kl -mno-pconfig -mno-sgx -mno-widekl -mshstk" CFLAGS="${COMMON_FLAGS}" CXXFLAGS="${COMMON_FLAGS}" FCFLAGS="${COMMON_FLAGS}" FFLAGS="${COMMON_FLAGS}" MAKEOPTS="-j16 -l12" RUSTFLAGS="-C target-cpu=alderlake -C opt-level=3" CPU_FLAGS_X86="aes avx avx2 avx_vnni bmi1 bmi2 f16c fma3 mmx mmxext \ pclmul popcnt rdrand sha sse sse2 sse3 sse4_1 sse4_2 ssse3 vpclmulqdq" LC_MESSAGES=C.UTF-8 GRUB_PLATFORMS="efi-64" USE="bluetooth btrfs dbus gles2 gstreamer libnotify vaapi \ networkmanager nftables pipewire policykit screencast systemd \ wayland hwdata alsa vulkan v4l libinput udisks2 thunderbolt zstd wifi \ brightness acpi pgo seatd -elogind -consolekit dist-kernel" VIDEO_CARDS="intel" INPUT_DEVICES="libinput"Snippet/etc/kernel/config.d# --- Микрокод и прошивки (Early KMS) --- #CONFIG_EXTRA_FIRMWARE_DIR="/lib/firmware" #CONFIG_EXTRA_FIRMWARE="i915/adlp_dmc_ver2_16.bin i915/adlp_guc_70.1.1.bin i915/tgl_huc_7.9.3.bin intel-ucode/06-9a-03" CONFIG_X86_AMD_PLATFORM_DEVICE=n # --- CPU: Alder Lake-P гибридная архитектура --- CONFIG_SMP=y CONFIG_X86_INTEL_ITD=y CONFIG_INTEL_PSTATE=y CONFIG_INTEL_PSTATE_DEFAULT_MODE_ACTIVE=y CONFIG_CPU_FREQ_DEFAULT_GOV_SCHEDUTIL=y CONFIG_X86_SGX=n CONFIG_SCHED_CORE=y CONFIG_IPC_NS=y CONFIG_SCHED_CLUSTER=y CONFIG_SCHED_SMT=y CONFIG_INTEL_HFI_THERMAL=y CONFIG_INTEL_IDLE=y CONFIG_CPU_IDLE_GOV_TEO=y CONFIG_INTEL_TURBO_MAX_3=y CONFIG_INTEL_SOC_PMIC=y CONFIG_INTEL_VSEC=y CONFIG_INTEL_WMI=y # --- Графика: Intel Iris Xe (Gen 12) --- CONFIG_DRM_XE=y # Для решений с выделенной памятью CONFIG_DRM_XE_FORCE_ALL_VRAM=y CONFIG_DRM_XE_USERPTR=y CONFIG_DRM=y CONFIG_DRM_XE_FORCE_PROBE="" #CONFIG_DRM_I915=y CONFIG_DRM_FBDEV_EMULATION=y #CONFIG_DRM_I915_GVT=n #CONFIG_DRM_I915_FORCE_PROBE="" #CONFIG_DRM_I915_PXP=y CONFIG_DRM_VGEM=n CONFIG_DRM_XE_DISPLAY=y # --- Звук: Intel SOF --- CONFIG_SND_SOC_SOF=y CONFIG_SND_SOC_SOF_INTEL_TOPLEVEL=y CONFIG_SND_SOC_SOF_PCI=m CONFIG_SND_SOC_SOF_TIGERLAKE=y CONFIG_SND_SOC_SOF_ALDERLAKE=y CONFIG_SND_SOC_INTEL_SOUNDWIRE_SOF_MACH=m CONFIG_SND_HDA_INTEL=y CONFIG_SND_HDA_CODEC_REALTEK=y CONFIG_SND_HDA_CODEC_HDMI=y CONFIG_SND_SOC_SOF_PROBE_WORK_QUEUE=y # --- Файловая система: Btrfs --- CONFIG_BTRFS_FS=y CONFIG_BTRFS_FS_POSIX_ACL=y CONFIG_CRYPTO_XXHASH=y CONFIG_CRYPTO_BLAKE2B=y CONFIG_CRYPTO_ZSTD=y CONFIG_BTRFS_FS_COMPRESS_ZSTD=y CONFIG_BTRFS_FS_COMPRESS_LZO=y CONFIG_BTRFS_FS_CHECK_INTEGRITY=n CONFIG_BTRFS_FS_REF_VERIFY=y # --- Сеть: WiFi 6 AX201 + Ethernet --- CONFIG_IWLWIFI=m CONFIG_IWLMVM=m CONFIG_IWLWIFI_PCIE_RTPM=y CONFIG_E1000E=m CONFIG_BT=m CONFIG_BT_HCIBTUSB=m CONFIG_BT_HCIBTUSB_AUTOSUSPEND=y CONFIG_BT_INTEL=m # --- Thunderbolt 4 / USB4 --- CONFIG_USB4=y CONFIG_THUNDERBOLT=y # --- I2C / LPSS (Touchpad, Sensors) --- CONFIG_I2C_DESIGNWARE=y CONFIG_I2C_DESIGNWARE_PCI=y CONFIG_INTEL_LPSS=y CONFIG_INTEL_LPSS_PCI=y # --- NVMe (два диска Micron) --- CONFIG_NVME_CORE=y CONFIG_NVME_FABRICS=m CONFIG_NVME_RDMA=m CONFIG_NVME_TCP=m CONFIG_NVME_AUTH=y CONFIG_NVME_MULTIPATH=y CONFIG_NVME_HWMON=y # --- ASUS специфика (WMI, Fn-keys, яркость) --- CONFIG_ASUS_WMI=y CONFIG_ASUS_NB_WMI=y CONFIG_ASUS_LAPTOP=y CONFIG_BACKLIGHT_CLASS_DEVICE=y # --- Термальное управление (ноутбук!) --- CONFIG_THERMAL=y CONFIG_THERMAL_NETLINK=y CONFIG_THERMAL_STATISTICS=y CONFIG_INTEL_POWERCLAMP=y CONFIG_X86_THERMAL_VECTOR=y CONFIG_INTEL_TCC=y CONFIG_INTEL_PCH_THERMAL=y CONFIG_PROCESSOR_THERMAL=y CONFIG_INTEL_HFI_THERMAL=y CONFIG_PM=y CONFIG_SUSPEND=y CONFIG_HIBERNATION=y CONFIG_ACPI=y CONFIG_ACPI_BATTERY=y CONFIG_ACPI_BUTTON=y CONFIG_ACPI_FAN=y # --- IOMMU (VT-d) --- CONFIG_IOMMU_SUPPORT=y CONFIG_INTEL_IOMMU=y CONFIG_INTEL_IOMMU_SVM=y CONFIG_INTEL_IOMMU_DEFAULT_ON=y CONFIG_INTEL_IOMMU_SCALABLE_MODE_DEFAULT_ON=y CONFIG_INTEL_IOMMU_PERF_EVENTS=y # --- Виртуализация --- CONFIG_KVM=y CONFIG_KVM_INTEL=y CONFIG_VIRTIO=y CONFIG_VIRTIO_PCI=y CONFIG_VIRTIO_NET=y CONFIG_VIRTIO_BLK=y CONFIG_VIRTIO_FS=y CONFIG_TUN=m CONFIG_BRIDGE=m CONFIG_VHOST_VSOCK=m CONFIG_VHOST_NET=m # Альтернативный режим USB-C/DisplayPort CONFIG_TYPEC=y CONFIG_TYPEC_TCPM=y CONFIG_TYPEC_UCSI=y CONFIG_UCSI_ACPI=y # Для Wayland-композитора как Niri, который использует Smithay CONFIG_DMA_BUF_PHYS=y CONFIG_SYNC_FILE=y CONFIG_SW_SYNC=y CONFIG_DMA_BUF=y CONFIG_DMA_BUF_SYSFS=y CONFIG_DMA_BUF_DEBUG=n/etc/dracut.conf.dforce_drivers+=" xe nvme thunderbolt intel_lpss_pci i2c_designware_pci " early_microcode="yes" # install_items+=" /lib/firmware/i915/adlp_dmc_ver2_16.bin /lib/firmware/i915/adlp_guc_70.1.1.bin /lib/firmware/i915/tgl_huc.bin "/etc/default/grubGRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="loglevel=3 quiet nowatchdog splash mitigations=auto intel_pstate=active hwp_dynamic_boost=1 xe.enable_dc=0 xe.guc_log_level=0 xe.wedged_mode=2 split_lock_detect=off xe.force_probe=46a6 i915.force_probe=!46a6 xe.enable_psr=0 iommu=pt intel_iommu=on mem_sleep_default=s2idle"
it is already 2026, but i still love gentoo it is already 2026, but i still love gentoou/lukazzzzzzzzzzzzzzz•1 mo. agoit is already 2026, but i still love gentooStoryi have compiled gentoo 2days ago, however i cant help but compiled gentoo yesterday again, today i used gentoo as serial port screen to install openbsd on my pi 5, and it worked like a charm, i am going to go ahead and make a network egress orchestrator with it, again, so that i can coordinate my network work with my gentoo,  and while i am doing my network job, i will probably compile more of my gentoo baby, because the more i compile gentoo, the more i feel alive, its like after one day of tiring work, when you finally get home, your wife says, “babe, i just compiled your gentoo for you, and portage returned zero errors/warnings, also your dinner is ready”, matter of fact, i am compiling gentoo right now as i am writing this post, the computer is singing, although i dont have a wife, but do you all see where this is going? and how close am i yo live my dream life? it is all because of gentoo linux,tomorrow is sunday, i will probably compile gentoo, once again.
two days of Compiling on Celeron two days of Compiling on Celeronu/These_Election_4204•1 mo. agotwo days of Compiling on CeleronScreenshot
My wifi and ethernet are somehow stuck while web search My wifi and ethernet are somehow stuck while web searchu/Silakfighter•7 days agoMy wifi and ethernet are somehow stuck while web searchSupport
Is it just me or is Gentoo throwing compiler errors left right and centre? Is it just me or is Gentoo throwing compiler errors left right and centre?u/Bubbly_Extreme4986•1 day agoIs it just me or is Gentoo throwing compiler errors left right and centre?DiscussionI’ve installed gentoo a bunch of times and never have I seen such carnage. Literally every 10th package or so has a compiler error even with basic flags.Is it just me?Are the mirrors or the stage files messed up?
Mangoooo Mangoooou/Professional_Dig4751•1 mo. agoMangooooScreenshot
best matrix client on gentoo? best matrix client on gentoo?u/CantaloupeAlone2511•3 days agobest matrix client on gentoo?Discussionhey everyone, with the news of discord requiring face-scan and uploading of ID's im looking for alternatives. I know there are some matrix clients that can also connect to irc, are there any available in gentoo's repositorys? if so, which do you use? what are the pros and cons? thanks!edit: or perhaps some other alternative? im all ears!
Are there plans to make Musl/llvm non experimental? Are there plans to make Musl/llvm non experimental?u/Bubbly_Extreme4986•1 mo. agoAre there plans to make Musl/llvm non experimental?DiscussionSorry if I’m coming off dumb but Alpine and Void have already done this so it must be possible right?
portage dependency resolution embarrassed me fr fr portage dependency resolution embarrassed me fr fru/ingenarel-NeoJesus•2 days agoportage dependency resolution embarrassed me fr frMeme
A few problems after the new Gentoo installation A few problems after the new Gentoo installationu/avn3r•2 days agoA few problems after the new Gentoo installationSupportAfter installing Gentoo on my laptop, I have a few problems that I can't resolve.HP elitebook 830 g6 - core i5 8250u, intel GPU -> Gentoo with NiriI installed and configured NetworkManager, and I can connect to Wi-Fi using `nmcli`, but `nm-applet` does not start and does not appear in the tray, even though it has been added to the Niri configuration.The second problem I encountered is with Stremio installed from Flatpak. Stremio starts on Sway but doesn't launch on Niri. Has anyone experienced something similar?STREMIO SOLVED -> flatpak override --user --env=QT_QPA_PLATFORM=wayland com.stremio.Stremio
how the gentoo install going(1.5 year upd) how the gentoo install going(1.5 year upd)u/LxckyFox•4 days agohow the gentoo install going(1.5 year upd)Screenshotswitched to a thinkpad x13 gen 2, made my install semi-suckless, still gotta remove some things.the only thing i still didnt do yet is make my own kernel, but i see no reason to do so sinceit just works, and it works better than anything ive used before.
Generate friends yourself Generate friends yourselfu/Selmi1•1 mo. agoGenerate friends yourselfMeme
Gentoo Hardware Build Complete Gentoo Hardware Build Completeu/hangint3n•1 mo. agoGentoo Hardware Build CompleteScreenshot
gentoo, gentoo gentoo, gentoou/eningene•1 mo. agogentoo, gentooScreenshot
erro no pacote sys-libs/glibc al usar o comando emerge --ask --verbose --update --deep --newuuse @world erro no pacote sys-libs/glibc al usar o comando emerge --ask --verbose --update --deep --newuuse @worldu/Livid_Function_3049•4 days agoerro no pacote sys-libs/glibc al usar o comando emerge --ask --verbose --update --deep --newuuse @worldSupportcomo posso resolver
su openrc vs non-su openrc .spec ? su openrc vs non-su openrc .spec ?u/Yha_Boiii•4 days agosu openrc vs non-su openrc .spec ?Support
Reinstall after enable ~amd64 for everything? Reinstall after enable ~amd64 for everything?u/AfternoonOk7784•4 days agoReinstall after enable ~amd64 for everything?SupportI enabled ~amd64 in my make.conf, which made a bunch of packages just like, not work to well.I enabled ~amd64 in my make.conf, which made a bunch of packages just like, not work to well. I asked in the gentoo discord and they say to reinstall everything because you'll have to mess around with dependency conflicts all the time, and I have seen alot of those happening... but I really dont want to reinstall.What should/could I do?
Gentoo server Gentoo serveru/diacid•1 mo. agoGentoo serverSupportThree questions:Common knowledge: I am talking about an intel Xeon x86_64 server running Gentoo+openrc headlessly.1- I am trying to install home assistant inside qemu. Can't figure out how to set up networking so as to be able to access the dashboard via LAN.2- Does anyone know how to setup app app-admin/cockpit? I have inode64 overlay but portage does not find the package.3- Does anyone know how to setup Dropbox deamon headlessly?Thanks a lot!
What's the right way to alter a savedconfig kernel config? What's the right way to alter a savedconfig kernel config?u/CheCheDaWaff•1 mo. agoWhat's the right way to alter a savedconfig kernel config?DiscussionI've relatively recently got into actually configuring my kernel and I've been removing features / modules I don't need. I'm using the savedconfig method with installkernel.I've done one round of this and would like to go in for a second. I'm a little confused trying to work out what the smooth / simple way would be to alter the config file I made with menuconfig.make menuconfigcannot run in thesavedconfigfolder itself and the tmp build directory for the kernel has since been cleaned.I suppose I can get it to work by usingebuild gentoo-kernel configure, and then messing around in the temp build directory. But is that really the easiest way?It doesn't help that there are at least 3 articles on the wiki covering kernel configuration and they take quite different approaches.
Compile stage-3 in a non-gentoo env? Compile stage-3 in a non-gentoo env?u/Yha_Boiii•4 days agoCompile stage-3 in a non-gentoo env?SupportIs there a git repo to clone with a makefile or equivalent convenience?
i'm 3 months off windows. i installed gentoo on my 16 year old laptop i'm 3 months off windows. i installed gentoo on my 16 year old laptopu/TVAffect•1 mo. agoi'm 3 months off windows. i installed gentoo on my 16 year old laptopStory...actually a bit less than 3 months. had to decline from the handbook a bit because i wanted to compile stuff on my main pc (i had no luck with getting the regular binary host to work, and apparently there aren't any mirrors close to my area). but at least now i'm not bounded to the default use flags while not having to wait ungodly amounts of time tbh the most difficult part was to get wifi working (broadcom chip btw). i spent several days and there it is, with broadcom-sta driver, networkmanager and iwd as a backend this laptop has 2 gb of ram, 2 cores and 2-with-something ghz
Dracut error on boot in live GUI Dracut error on boot in live GUIu/francehotel•6 days agoDracut error on boot in live GUISupport
Gentoo is sweet Gentoo is sweetu/Misa_Games65•1 mo. agoGentoo is sweetScreenshot
Might Gentoo go this way too, soon? Linux From Scratch supporting systemd exclusively Might Gentoo go this way too, soon? Linux From Scratch supporting systemd exclusivelyu/Illustrious-Gur8335•6 days agoMight Gentoo go this way too, soon? Linux From Scratch supporting systemd exclusivelyDiscussionhttps://www.phoronix.com/news/LFS-Dropping-SysVinit
Finally did It! Finally did It!u/Cyclolysis•20 days agoFinally did It!Screenshot
My first custom kernel! My first custom kernel!u/Cyclolysis•10 days agoMy first custom kernel!Screenshot
Experts, Help! How to resolve???? Experts, Help! How to resolve????u/unixbhaskar•1 mo. agoExperts, Help! How to resolve????Screenshot
GentooPad GentooPadu/drinkuranium•1 mo. agoGentooPadScreenshot
WSL kernel sources WSL kernel sourcesu/Thalioden•4 days agoWSL kernel sourcesSupportI have a new WSL Gentoo install on Windows 11. When I try to runemerge -uDN @worldI receive the following messages:>>> Running pre-merge checks for sys-apps/systemd-259.1  * Determining the location of the kernel source code  * Unable to find kernel sources at /usr/src/linux  * Please make sure that /usr/src/linux points at your running kernel,  * (or the kernel you wish to build against).  * Alternatively, set the KERNEL_DIR environment variable to the kernel sources location  * Unable to calculate Linux Kernel version for build, attempting to use running version  * Checking for suitable kernel configuration options ...Is this safe to ignore? If not, what linux kernel sources should I be supplying on WSL?
Calculate, nice to see a Gentoo based distro that just works Calculate, nice to see a Gentoo based distro that just worksu/poeticg33k•1 mo. agoCalculate, nice to see a Gentoo based distro that just worksScreenshotBackground on me...I first started using Gentoo back in 2003. My first distro was FC3, but Gentoo found me a week later, and it was off to the races. installed from a stage 2 tarball, vanilla kernel. such a great way to really learn Linux, and give me the tools to build a wonderful career.switched to Macs as they are great tools for music, being a true nix was just icing on the cake. now that Apple is just about to EOL Intel mac, and my 2015, and 2018 macbook's are still pushing on. I started looking for a distro to slap on and keep them going. Fedora, Debian/Ubuntu, Arch are good and all but yeah...i search for Gentoo based distro's, as i really dont like to spend my personal time doing what i do at work.Calculate was the first i took out for a test drive and was so pleasantly surprised everything, wifi and all just worked out the box.
Question about gentoo-kernel-bin Question about gentoo-kernel-binu/Sky_Marie•5 days agoQuestion about gentoo-kernel-binSupportHi! I have some questions, and please be friendly to me on this, I'm still relatively new to Linux [I just hit the four months mark], learn slowly + am heavily a literal thinker/reader, and yet I want to learn as I can about many distros, and about Linux in general. I've just recently hopped from EndeavourOS to Arch, and want to try dualbooting with Gentoo on my primary laptop.I've been trying to install Gentoo for two weekends as of now, and each time, ran into an issue. I got close with my latest attempt on hardware (Haphazardly succeeded on a VM... However, I immediately got pushed into emergency mode due to needing something in regards to the VM, and root was locked.) , however, when attempting to probe Gentoo through Grub on my Arch installation, it picked up on Gentoo, but did not put it in the menu.I also tried to install Grub through Gentoo, and Grub couldn't pick up on that install. I tried to check for the kernels, and noticed that there was a lack of initramfs. I realize, upon looking through a multitude of things, and reviewing the guidebook, that I may have been confusing steps.I want to go through the -bin kernel, as it's to see if I can install Gentoo, first, before attempting to configure more than I may be able to right off-bat, and to help me process information.When doing the -bin kernel, I notice that there's a section that explains that I don't need to install Dracut or Uki; am I still able to use these two with a -bin install? Do I skip Dracut + Uki due to the initramfs already existing through a -bin install, instead? I ask as, how I tend to read and/or skim things, I see them in steps, rather than "You can skip some areas, and use other means", which leads me to trying things in conflicting ways.
KDE Plasma Wayland on NVIDIA (GTX 1660 Super) on Gentoo — is it usable? KDE Plasma Wayland on NVIDIA (GTX 1660 Super) on Gentoo — is it usable?u/Veythrix•1 mo. agoKDE Plasma Wayland on NVIDIA (GTX 1660 Super) on Gentoo — is it usable?DiscussionHello, I’m planning to runKDE Plasma on WaylandonGentoo Linuxwith anNVIDIA GTX 1660 Superand would like to hear recent user experienceIs it stable on proprietary NVIDIA drivers?Any common issues??Any Gentoo-specific pitfalls?
After reading the handbook After reading the handbooku/PinkSlep•4 days agoAfter reading the handbookStoryAfter reading "most" of the Gentoo Handbook and learning more about Gentoo itself, I honestly felt like I’d been trolled. What do you mean I can install applications normally and only compile what actually matters  like the (Kernel,  DE, , Display stack maybe) Who on earth compiles Firefox?I genuinely thought the whole “if it moves, compile it” idea was real and your system will not work if you didn't do it … turns out it’s not.Yes, your main source of information should absolutely be the Handbook. But you might be surprised to find that some people have very good installation videos as well. So the best approach is simply to read the Handbook watch a good video and compare both side by side.Using systemd is fine but it’s not the traditional way OpenRC
Guru or Gentoo-zh overlays. Guru or Gentoo-zh overlays.u/Primary_Concept_3147•1 mo. agoGuru or Gentoo-zh overlays.DiscussionIf a package is in gentoo zh and guru, which overlay do you prefer to download it from?
Is it worth adding lto to systemwide use flags? Is it worth adding lto to systemwide use flags?u/MeiwingSuku•4 days agoIs it worth adding lto to systemwide use flags?Discussionhttps://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/LTOBasically it makes some apps run faster by optimizing it but every compiling job takes a lot longer. Do you guys use lto and have some insight about it?
USB-3 and DisplayLink on Gentoo USB-3 and DisplayLink on Gentoou/phred14•1 mo. agoUSB-3 and DisplayLink on GentooSupportI have an old Lenovo USB-3 dock that has been used before with Windows, and every now and then I try unsuccessfully to get it working with my Linux laptop.Recently I tried again using the Gentoo DisplayLink Wiki, again unsuccessfully. Then I did some outside-Gentoo searching and find that USB-3 DIsplayLink is completely different from USB-2 DisplayLink, which the Wiki is written for. Looking at other distributions, I see an out-of-kernel "evdi" module and "DisplayLink-Driver" or maybe "Displaylink-Manager" driver for Xorg. I have the "guru" overlay installed and find x11-drivers/evdi there, but not the Xorg driver. I've also found a "zigford/gentoo-displaylink" overlay that contains both evdi and displaylink-driver on the web, but it's not on "eselect repository list"Has anyone else got this worked out in a more normalized way?
Linux is less private than Windows by default (you should encrypt your rootfs) Linux is less private than Windows by default (you should encrypt your rootfs)u/Silent-Degree-6072•4 days agoLinux is less private than Windows by default (you should encrypt your rootfs)DiscussionEdit: since I worded this pretty badly I meant to say that most distros shipping an unencrypted rootfs by default was a security problem that Windows and MacOS already solved for you (although your encryption keys are not very private). Default unencrypted Linux is nevertheless more private & secure remotely, however it is not the case locallyWhile normal Linux systems don't send any data to some random servers hundreds of times a day, the data stored on your disk is not encrypted. Your passwords essentially serve zero purpose if a bad actor has local access to your machine; anyone can just chroot into your SSD without any kind of authentication (if your rootfs isn't encrypted) and steal all your precious data.Windows 11 uses Bitlocker by default, however Microsoft is completely willing to send your keys to various three-letter agencies if they are presented with a warrant.Therefore, I recommend using LUKS to encrypt your rootfs. There are various guides on the Gentoo wiki to do so and I heavily recommend checking them out. The benefits heavily outweigh the downsides imoI personally use cryptsetup and ugrd. You do need to enable DM_CRYPT (not as a module) in your kernel for it to work properly.
This is the Gentoo installation menu? This is the Gentoo installation menu?u/Even-Tiger6766•4 days agoThis is the Gentoo installation menu?Discussionhola,inslale la imagen CD minimal de Gentoo desde su wiki oficialy la puse en QEMU/KVM para probar el proseso de inslacion si lo se se instala y se compila todo a manopero cuando lo fui a iniciar aparecio lo de la imagen no se supone que se instala por teminal a un que despues de esa imagen si aparacen "cosas" de terminal por asi decirustedes que opinan?
Switched to dwl Switched to dwlu/Silent-Degree-6072•11 days agoSwitched to dwlScreenshot
i did it i did itu/DealerEmergency9182•11 days agoi did itScreenshot
Binhost Binhostu/diacid•1 mo. agoBinhostSupportI bought an Intel Xeon. I have multiple computers running gentoo, with different use flags and settings. How do I outsource Portage's compilations to the Xeon server? Isthishelpful for that?
Why can't my wifi drivers loading after install? Why can't my wifi drivers loading after install?u/Proton-Lightin•6 days agoWhy can't my wifi drivers loading after install?Support
Gpm openrc service need to specify start, stop and reload function. Gpm openrc service need to specify start, stop and reload function.u/lidgl4991•7 days agoGpm openrc service need to specify start, stop and reload function.SupportCould you guys confirm that gpm (general purpose mouse) openrc service works?  The package comes with openrc service and it doesn't work for me. I need to specify start, stop and reload function like this :#!/sbin/openrc-runpidfile="/var/run/gpm.pid"command=/usr/sbin/gpmcommand_args=${gpm_opts:--m /dev/input/mice -t imps2}depend() {`after localmount``use hotplug logger`}start() {`${command} ${command_args}`}stop() {`${command} -k`}reload() {echo "Restarting gpm..."/usr/sbin/gpm -ksleep 1/usr/sbin/gpm -m /dev/input/mice -t imps2}
Ufw with nftables problem Ufw with nftables problemu/PartMysterious4688•6 days agoUfw with nftables problemSupportI already set the ipv4 firewall and my ufw also uses ipv6, I've been tinkering around with  the kernel options and compiled it multiple times.Any help is appreciated.Error message:* Stopping ufw ... [ ok ]* Starting ufw ...Problem running '/etc/ufw/before.rules'Problem running '/etc/ufw/after.rules'Problem running '/etc/ufw/user.rules'Problem running '/etc/ufw/before6.rules'Problem running '/etc/ufw/user6.rules'Warning: Extension conntrack revision 0 not supported, missing kernel module?Warning: Extension conntrack is not supported, missing kernel module?iptables-restore v1.8.11 (nf_tables):line 2: RULE_APPEND failed (No such file or directory): rule in chain ufw-track-outputline 3: RULE_APPEND failed (No such file or directory): rule in chain ufw-track-outputWarning: Extension conntrack revision 0 not supported, missing kernel module?Warning: Extension conntrack is not supported, missing kernel module?Warning: Extension conntrack is not supported, missing kernel module?Warning: Extension conntrack is not supported, missing kernel module?Warning: Extension conntrack is not supported, missing kernel module?Warning: Extension icmp revision 0 not supported, missing kernel module?Warning: Extension udp revision 0 not supported, missing kernel module?Warning: Extension addrtype revision 0 not supported, missing kernel module?Warning: Extension addrtype is not supported, missing kernel module?Warning: Extension addrtype is not supported, missing kernel module?Warning: Extension limit revision 0 not supported, missing kernel module?iptables-restore v1.8.11 (nf_tables):line 25: RULE_APPEND failed (No such file or directory): rule in chain ufw-before-inputline 26: RULE_APPEND failed (No such file or directory): rule in chain ufw-before-outputline 27: RULE_APPEND failed (No such file or directory): rule in chain ufw-before-forwardline 30: RULE_APPEND failed (No such file or directory): rule in chain ufw-before-inputline 31: RULE_APPEND failed (No such file or directory): rule in chain ufw-before-inputline 34: RULE_APPEND failed (No such file or directory): rule in chain ufw-before-inputline 35: RULE_APPEND failed (No such file or directory): rule in chain ufw-before-inputline 36: RULE_APPEND failed (No such file or directory): rule in chain ufw-before-inputline 37: RULE_APPEND failed (No such file or directory): rule in chain ufw-before-inputline 40: RULE_APPEND failed (No such file or directory): rule in chain ufw-before-forwardline 41: RULE_APPEND failed (No such file or directory): rule in chain ufw-before-forwardline 60: RULE_APPEND failed (No such file or diWarning: Extension udp revision 0 not supported, missing kernel module?Warning: Extension tcp revision 0 not supported, missing kernel module?Warning: Extension addrtype revision 0 not supported, missing kernel module?iptables-restore v1.8.11 (nf_tables):line 27: RULE_APPEND failed (No such file or directory): rule in chain ufw-after-inputWarning: Extension tcp revision 0 not supported, missing kernel module?Warning: Extension udp revision 0 not supported, missing kernel module?Warning: Extension LOG revision 0 not supported, missing kernel module?Warning: Extension limit revision 0 not supported, missing kernel module?Warning: Extension conntrack revision 0 not supported, missing kernel module?iptables-restore v1.8.11 (nf_tables):line 25: RULE_APPEND failed (No such file or directory): rule in chain ufw-after-logging-inputline 26: RULE_APPEND failed (No such file or directory): rule in chain ufw-after-logging-forwardline 27: RULE_INSERT failed (No such file or directory): rule in chain ufw-logging-denyline 28: RULE_APPEND failed (No such file or directory): rule in chain ufw-logging-denyline 29: RULE_APPEND failed (No such file or directory): rule in chain ufw-logging-allowWarning: Extension conntrack is not supported, missing kernel module?ip6tables-restore v1.8.11 (nf_tables): Couldn't load match \conntrack':No such file or directory`Error occurred at line: 2Try \ip6tables-restore -h' or 'ip6tables-restore --help' for more information.`Warning: Extension rt revision 0 not supported, missing kernel module?Warning: Extension conntrack is not supported, missing kernel module?ip6tables-restore v1.8.11 (nf_tables): Couldn't load match \conntrack':No such file or directory`Error occurred at line: 29Try \ip6tables-restore -h' or 'ip6tables-restore --help' for more information.`Warning: Extension udp revision 0 not supported, missing kernel module?Warning: Extension tcp revision 0 not supported, missing kernel module?Warning: Extension tcp revision 0 not supported, missing kernel module?Warning: Extension udp revision 0 not supported, missing kernel module?Warning: Extension LOG revision 0 not supported, missing kernel module?Warning: Extension limit revision 0 not supported, missing kernel module?Warning: Extension conntrack is not supported, missing kernel module?ip6tables-restore v1.8.11 (nf_tables): Couldn't load match \conntrack':No such file or directory`Error occurred at line: 27Try \ip6tables-restore -h' or 'ip6tables-restore --help' for more information.`* Failed to start ufw. [ !! ]* ERROR: ufw failed to start
Need reliable mirrors for mid-US Need reliable mirrors for mid-USu/TJRoyalty_•5 days agoNeed reliable mirrors for mid-USSupportI am on the America/Chicago timezone and currently use gentoo.osuosl.org, mirror.umd.edu/gentoo/, andwww.gtlib.gatech.edu/pub/gentoo/mirrors; however, they are returning 404. I don't require the fastest mirrors, but i need some that are reliable. if anyone knows some good US mirrors, please let me know so i can test them.
How to download the Gentoo Linux distribution with minimal commands? (For a beginner.) How to download the Gentoo Linux distribution with minimal commands? (For a beginner.)u/Dimden222•1 mo. agoHow to download the Gentoo Linux distribution with minimal commands? (For a beginner.)SupportHi! I wanted to install the Gentoo Linux distribution first on a virtual machine, and then on a real PC if everything works out. But I couldn't find any adequate answers online. So, I'm asking you to tell me how.
instalando gentoo linux instalando gentoo linuxu/Livid_Function_3049•5 days agoinstalando gentoo linuxDiscussiondepois de mais de 30h começa a chover e acaba 1h depois eu tiver de desligar o computadoreditado:obg resolvido
Rebuilding........ being on SSD is a boon in compile time! Rebuilding........ being on SSD is a boon in compile time!u/unixbhaskar•1 mo. agoRebuilding........ being on SSD is a boon in compile time!Screenshot
How to get warp-cli to work on Gentoo How to get warp-cli to work on Gentoou/AmountComfortable499•1 mo. agoHow to get warp-cli to work on GentooSupportHello, I want to use cloudflare warp vpn but unfortunately there aren't any packages in the gentoo repository and it seems that gentoo is not supported by cloudflare.All I could find is .deb packages... Can I somehow extract the .deb and install the files manually? Or is there a better way of doing this?Thanks
My journey to Gentoo, I love it!! My journey to Gentoo, I love it!!u/OkNoble•1 mo. agoMy journey to Gentoo, I love it!!Screenshot
Hmmm .....my laptop fan goes berserk.....shit ....... It's so loud .....what the fuck! 🤔 Hmmm .....my laptop fan goes berserk.....shit ....... It's so loud .....what the fuck! 🤔u/unixbhaskar•1 mo. agoHmmm .....my laptop fan goes berserk.....shit ....... It's so loud .....what the fuck! 🤔Screenshot
Gentoo community knows the process well, so crossposting here. Gentoo community knows the process well, so crossposting here.u/i_37•5 days agoGentoo community knows the process well, so crossposting here.SupportNeed help figuring out how to boot fedora on an external driver/Fedora•5 days agoNeed help figuring out how to boot fedora on an external driveI have an old macbook pro 13 inch touch bar 256 GB 8GB RAM 2017 model. Its internal ssd had a hardware failure few years ago. I recently decided to revive it by using an external nvme ssd in a thunderbolt enclosure (Acasis TB405 air). Initially I used my gentoo live usb to install gentoo on it, but it was not able to detect the external drive out of the box, so I decided to try it with Fedora desktop since I wanted to test if the device was even supported.Here’s what I did after:I booted from fedora live usb into desktop environment. Plugged the drive into the left thunderbolt port. Fedora warned and asked to "Autheticate once" or "Authenticate permanently", for which I selected to autheticate permanently.After this the drive was accesible in the live system. I installed fredora on it using the fedora installer. The partitions looked fine to me.After installation, during the reboot process, it shows the fedora logo and the loading screen, but gets stuck on this job `Job dev-disk-by\x2duuid-b8fdfaa0\x2ice/start running (5m  in / no limit)`.I tried adding boot params to pause for 30 s and load thunderbolt drivers but that did not help.I even created a UKI and tried to boot from it, but it always got stuck at the same job.I tried with disk labels, uuids and partuuids in the fstab, but none of it helped.I'm not certain if what I'm trying is even possible on this hardware. The fact that fedora logo shows up should be a sign that the drive is readable while boot, right? Or am I missing something here.I would really appreciate the community’s help.lsblk for the drive shows thisnvme1n1nvme1n1p1 vfat    FAT32                               F080-219Cnvme1n1p2 ext4    1.0                                 f460fa0e-ed9c-4e5a-b363-a7ca85d532c8nvme1n1p3 btrfs                    fedora             b8fdfaa0-7d44-4ffd-a59e-5e614ec682c1  457.3G     1% /run/media/liveuser/fedorafstabUUID=b8fdfaa0-7d44-4ffd-a59e-5e614ec682c1 / btrfs subvol=root,compress=zstd:1 0 0UUID=f460fa0e-ed9c-4e5a-b363-a7ca85d532c8 /boot ext4 defaults 1 2UUID=F080-219C /boot/efi vfat umask=0077,shortname=winnt 0 2UUID=b8fdfaa0-7d44-4ffd-a59e-5e614ec682c1 /home btrfs subvol=home,compress=zstd:1 0 0PS: I’ll be able to return the thunderbolt enclosure if the help arrives in time.1upvote·4comments
XFCE - xfce4-terminal and firefox right click menu have trouble displaying XFCE - xfce4-terminal and firefox right click menu have trouble displayingu/pixel293•5 days agoXFCE - xfce4-terminal and firefox right click menu have trouble displayingSupportEverything was working fine, then I updated, and now things are messed up.  Most of it seems to be the xfce4-terminal.When typing in the terminal it will often not display the key I typed until I type the next one. Also when running a command it will sometimes not display the output, until I hit another key. It will 'blink" while typing where it appear to not paint, so whatever window is behind it will paint "over it", but the terminal will not, a few keystrokes later and it suddenly decides to paint.The task bar is also "blinking" almost seems to be in time with the terminal....And I just discovered in firefox that when displaying the right click pop-up, the popup will "blink" on and off randomly.I have just rebuilt:[ebuild R ] xfce-base/xfce4-panel-4.20.5::gentoo USE="X dbusmenu wayland -introspection -vala" 0 KiB[binary R ] xfce-extra/xfce4-screensaver-4.20.1-3::gentoo USE="X elogind locking pam wayland -systemd" 0 KiB[binary R ] x11-terms/xfce4-terminal-1.1.5-r1-1::gentoo USE="X wayland -utempter" 0 KiB[binary R ] xfce-base/xfce4-session-4.20.3-1::gentoo USE="X nls policykit wayland xscreensaver" 0 KiB[ebuild R ] xfce-extra/xfce4-notifyd-0.9.7::gentoo USE="X sound wayland" 0 KiBAnd logged out and logged back in, that didn't solve the issue.I do not have systemd, nor do I graphical login, I start X with a script in my .bash_profile:if shopt -q login_shell; then[[ -f ~/.bashrc ]] && source ~/.bashrc[[ -t 0 && $(tty) == /dev/tty1 && ! $DISPLAY ]] && exec startxfce4elseexit 1 # Somehow this is a non-bash or non-login shell.fiI have an nvidia card and I'm using the nvidia drivers.Any ideas?UPDATE: Well I installed KDE and the xfce terminal actually works fine there...so it is probably something outside of the terminal. I just haven't found it yet.
Gentoo on ThinkPad Gentoo on ThinkPadu/drinkuranium•1 mo. agoGentoo on ThinkPadSupportI have aE14 Generation 6 Thinkpad, and I am wondering if its a good idea to put gentoo on it? I use it daily and i’ve been using gentoo for a couple weeks on my main pc with minor hiccups but always caused by me, the first time i decided to update (One day after my initial install) it took about 1-2 hours and I am unsure whether or not installing gentoo will put stress on my laptop or if it will slow it down in the future because of the compiling ill be doing.
I'm 13 and just installed Gentoo!! I'm 13 and just installed Gentoo!!u/purelyannoying•13 days agoI'm 13 and just installed Gentoo!!Screenshot
2025 in retrospect & happy new year 2026! 2025 in retrospect & happy new year 2026!u/krumpfwylg•1 mo. ago2025 in retrospect & happy new year 2026!Newshttps://www.gentoo.org/news/2026/01/05/new-year.html
Average compile times for X Average compile times for Xu/IckLerneDeutsch•1 mo. agoAverage compile times for XDiscussionHello folks!Is there a list of the most common software and their average compile time?Like a comparison of everything in x11-wm or x11-terms?Why do I ask? I'm going to install Gentoo on an ancient laptop, and I'm curious what it would look like if I optimized for compilation time over everything else.
I got recommended gentoo by r/linuxquestions I got recommended gentoo by r/linuxquestionsu/laczek_hubert•1 mo. agoI got recommended gentoo by r/linuxquestionsDiscussionhttps://www.reddit.com/r/linux4noobs/comments/1q4qlg1/what_is_the_best_diy_distro/?share_id=uVMghcHN6kEQ8R59-KrMH&utm_content=1&utm_medium=android_app&utm_name=androidcss&utm_source=share&utm_term=1
Gentoo Experience Gentoo Experienceu/Sweaty-Quality-6883•1 mo. agoGentoo ExperienceDiscussionHi everyone,I hope you guys are well. This may seem like an out of a blue question for someone who recently joined but for context I have been using arch Linux for a few months now, hopping on the Linux trend.This may seems backwards saying this, but after using arch Linux and its issues for crashing when updating or when nitpicking a configuration file everything goes into smoke and flame. I decided to look for other distros that may suit me, even if they are difficult in comparison what I was currently working one.To make it short, how is Gentoo? I know it’s difficult that’s a given but how does it compare to Nixos? Is the reward worth the challenge? And more importantly… am I least likely to face problems such as breaking the distro?Thank you in advance!
is upgrading my specs worth it? is upgrading my specs worth it?u/drinkuranium•1 mo. agois upgrading my specs worth it?SupportCurrently I have aRyzen 5 5500 paired with 2x8gb DDR4memory, would it be much more beneficial to change to aRyzen 7 5700 with 2x16gb DDR4memory? Compile times are a bit of a pain but they are not that bad and Im aware that I can use binary packages but then again a lot of big packages (To my understanding) do not have binary options available.
My second gentoo install ever My second gentoo install everu/Nit3H8wk•27 days agoMy second gentoo install everScreenshot
Who needs Debian? My server runs Gentoo! Hooray! Who needs Debian? My server runs Gentoo! Hooray!u/diacid•1 mo. agoWho needs Debian? My server runs Gentoo! Hooray!Screenshot
New server! Portage is not hard to run in a 28 core Xeon! New server! Portage is not hard to run in a 28 core Xeon!u/diacid•1 mo. agoNew server! Portage is not hard to run in a 28 core Xeon!ScreenshotThe thing doesn´t even heat up. Spurts 100% and instantly finishes...
Should i swich from artix to gentoo? Should i swich from artix to gentoo?u/Equal_Entertainer_29•1 mo. agoShould i swich from artix to gentoo?DiscussionI am very temtated to swich to gentoo but i am not 100% sure. The good thing about artix is the speed of the instals, and i did not had any problems with my sistem. Is cool how you can select what not to install on gentoo but the install is very slow. Do you guys think is worth swiching to gentoo even if artix work well?
emerge @world has been stuck on something for more than 12 hours emerge @world has been stuck on something for more than 12 hoursu/Independent_Land7014•1 mo. agoemerge @world has been stuck on something for more than 12 hoursSupporti decided to try out gentoo for the first time, but on a old sony vaio vgn n37gh.the specs are as follows:-intel core 2 duo t5300-1 gig of ram-250 gig ssd [1 gig boot16 gig swaprest is root]-graphics card is unfortunately unknown.I know that compiling will take a very long time on this device, like a couple days at best, but recently it has been stuck compiling llvm. I wouldnt have been concerned that much because from what ive heard llvm is very big, but it has been stuck compiling one item for more than 12 hours while everything else took a couple of minutes. Should i be concerned. would wifi disconnecting mid compiling result in it being stuck like this, or is it unrelated?(keep in mind i am kinda new to linux. yes, i shouldnt be building gentoo in this stage but i like to dive straight in and learn from my mistakes)
finally left windows to try my first linux distro on my actual system finally left windows to try my first linux distro on my actual systemu/Affectionate_Foot465•1 mo. agofinally left windows to try my first linux distro on my actual systemScreenshot
Can someone fucking explain to me what gentoo is? Can someone fucking explain to me what gentoo is?u/Kuba_Prime•1 mo. agoCan someone fucking explain to me what gentoo is?DiscussionWTF is gentoo?
The installation isn’t even the difficult part The installation isn’t even the difficult partu/Suissie•1 mo. agoThe installation isn’t even the difficult partDiscussionIdk why no one talks about this but building a working sway setup in gentoo (openrc) is so difficult for me. Nothing ever works. It’s been days and my pipewire still isn’t working properly, Swayidle just doesn’t lock my screen after time is up, screen recording on obs doesnt work, neither on discord, right click window on pcmanfm just opens anywhere but where my cursor actually is placed.I spend hours upon hours to get small things like this working instead of doing things I actually wanted to do. I try to follow whats being explained on the gentoo site as close as possible, installing things with the correct use flags, setting the right configs. I try to look for help on the gentoo forum, not a single reply…Im not giving up yet because I really want to accomplish this but it sure is rough
Finally installed gentoo after 5+ years of using Linux! Finally installed gentoo after 5+ years of using Linux!u/colmehurze•12 days agoFinally installed gentoo after 5+ years of using Linux!Screenshot
might not be the right place to ask but might not be the right place to ask butu/workinh•1 mo. agomight not be the right place to ask butDiscussionhow does the gentoo forum use phpbb 2.x in 2026 without it beimg really damn insecure????
The one who started it all… The one who started it all…u/SuccessfulRiver1850•1 mo. agoThe one who started it all…Meme
What merged today!! FUN :) What merged today!! FUN :)u/unixbhaskar•1 mo. agoWhat merged today!! FUN :)Screenshot
Frutiger Aero Gentoo wallpapers (these were made with GIMP in a quick manner, lol) Frutiger Aero Gentoo wallpapers (these were made with GIMP in a quick manner, lol)u/AAVVIronAlex•21 days agoFrutiger Aero Gentoo wallpapers (these were made with GIMP in a quick manner, lol)Screenshot
Gentoo from LiveUSB to HDD Gentoo from LiveUSB to HDDu/MUSTDOS•6 days agoGentoo from LiveUSB to HDDSupportHello all!I manged to burn gentoo into my USB as a back-up/maintenance.But now, I want to literally install Gentoo into my PC (not a complete 1:1 copy; No KDE, etc)How do I manage via my LiveUSB?
My Desktop My Desktopu/xHz27•1 mo. agoMy DesktopScreenshot
It's really hard Gentoo? It's really hard Gentoo?u/Even-Tiger6766•7 days agoIt's really hard Gentoo?Supporthello I am a relatively novice user in linux I use debian but I feel that I lack that freedom I've been researching super customizable distros and I came across Gentoo The "problem" is that many users say that it is super difficult to install, is that really true?
Portage has the best error messages of them all Portage has the best error messages of them allu/Bubbly_Extreme4986•1 mo. agoPortage has the best error messages of them allDiscussionSeriously I spent most of my Linux time with the Apt package manager which is rubbish.Then I found pacman which is amazing but the error messages are just error messages.Then there’s portage. I just want to take a moment to thank the devs who made this because I know some lurk in these chats. It’s like being handed an entire encyclopedia on what you screwed up and exactly how to fix it, where to find support, what information to add. Wow.
Has gentoo ever removed a package from portage? Has gentoo ever removed a package from portage?u/The_Coding_Knight•1 mo. agoHas gentoo ever removed a package from portage?DiscussionI was browsing through bugzila to find a gentoo but. Then I found one from 2009 regarding ssmtp.According to google ssmtp is basically obsolete and its package got removed from some Linux distributions like Debian. Also the package is no longer maintained by its developers, it doesn’t have a gentoo maintainer neither.so like I asked: has gentoo ever removed a package from portage and if so would this be enough to remove smtp (gentoo supports the more modern and preferred approach called msmtp so there would still be an option for anyone who wants to use smtp to send emails— and I’m sure there should be even more options )
Xorg/Xlibre crashing :( Xorg/Xlibre crashing :(u/ohohuhuhahah•8 days agoXorg/Xlibre crashing :(SupportHi! I have thinkpad e14 gen 5 with gentoo running (it is amazing), but I am facing problem with  crashing xlibre (tried different versions, all of them do this) after some update. It does when I change picom settings in config file or add/remove screens.Logs are too big to post, so I will post part of it I personally find interestingAny ideas where too look? When I disabled amdgpu driver, cpu was draweing everything (perfomance is really bad), but I didn't have any of theese probems.I use Linux 6.12.63-gentoo-dist (compiled one). Is it kernel issue?I use DWM, also checked AwesomeWM (same behaviour). Have wayland installed, but didn't check it here yetI have this cpu and gpu :󰻠 CPU  AMD Ryzen 7 7730U (16) @ 4.55 GHz󰢮 GPU  AMD Barcelo [Integrated]in make.conf this was working fine for very long time:VIDEO_CARDS="amdgpu radeonsi"Any help is appriciated. thanks in advance!If there are cool wiki pages about that, sharre them, I would like to read them :)Adding/removing screens Xorg log:[2026-02-05 15:09:26]  [2026-02-05 15:09:26] Backtrace: [2026-02-05 15:09:26] 0: /usr/bin/X (xorg_backtrace+0x54) [0x55c4ce8de6d4] [2026-02-05 15:09:26] 1: /usr/bin/X (0x55c4ce7a0000+0x142c3f) [0x55c4ce8e2c3f] [2026-02-05 15:09:26] 2: /usr/lib64/libc.so.6 (0x7f1f44be3000+0x3d910) [0x7f1f44c20910] [2026-02-05 15:09:26] 3: /usr/lib64/libc.so.6 (0x7f1f44be3000+0x95d3c) [0x7f1f44c78d3c] [2026-02-05 15:09:26] 4: /usr/lib64/libc.so.6 (gsignal+0x16) [0x7f1f44c207e6] [2026-02-05 15:09:26] 5: /usr/lib64/libc.so.6 (abort+0x28) [0x7f1f44c0830b] [2026-02-05 15:09:26] 6: /usr/lib64/libc.so.6 (0x7f1f44be3000+0x264d6) [0x7f1f44c094d6] [2026-02-05 15:09:26] 7: /usr/lib64/libc.so.6 (0x7f1f44be3000+0x9fe27) [0x7f1f44c82e27] [2026-02-05 15:09:26] 8: /usr/lib64/libc.so.6 (0x7f1f44be3000+0xa21aa) [0x7f1f44c851aa] [2026-02-05 15:09:26] 9: /usr/lib64/libc.so.6 (__libc_free+0x180) [0x7f1f44c87e90] [2026-02-05 15:09:26] 10: /usr/lib64/xorg/modules/xlibre-25/drivers/video/amdgpu_drv.so (0x7f1f44aa3000+0x132e1) [0x7f1f44ab62e1] [2026-02-05 15:09:26] 11: /usr/bin/X (0x55c4ce7a0000+0xc628b) [0x55c4ce86628b] [2026-02-05 15:09:26] 12: /usr/bin/X (0x55c4ce7a0000+0xc681e) [0x55c4ce86681e] [2026-02-05 15:09:26] 13: /usr/bin/X (0x55c4ce7a0000+0x179adc) [0x55c4ce919adc] [2026-02-05 15:09:26] 14: /usr/bin/X (0x55c4ce7a0000+0x97865) [0x55c4ce837865] [2026-02-05 15:09:26] 15: /usr/bin/X (0x55c4ce7a0000+0x395c2) [0x55c4ce7d95c2] [2026-02-05 15:09:26] 16: /usr/bin/X (0x55c4ce7a0000+0x39c97) [0x55c4ce7d9c97] [2026-02-05 15:09:26] 17: /usr/bin/X (SetRootClip+0x1d6) [0x55c4ce833e56] [2026-02-05 15:09:26] 18: /usr/bin/X (0x55c4ce7a0000+0x196dd5) [0x55c4ce936dd5] [2026-02-05 15:09:26] 19: /usr/bin/X (0x55c4ce7a0000+0xace95) [0x55c4ce84ce95] [2026-02-05 15:09:26] 20: /usr/bin/X (0x55c4ce7a0000+0x5c2fb) [0x55c4ce7fc2fb] [2026-02-05 15:09:26] 21: /usr/bin/X (0x55c4ce7a0000+0x610a3) [0x55c4ce8010a3] [2026-02-05 15:09:26] 22: /usr/lib64/libc.so.6 (0x7f1f44be3000+0x273ae) [0x7f1f44c0a3ae] [2026-02-05 15:09:26] 23: /usr/lib64/libc.so.6 (__libc_start_main+0x89) [0x7f1f44c0a469] [2026-02-05 15:09:26] 24: /usr/bin/X (_start+0x25) [0x55c4ce7bd535] [2026-02-05 15:09:26]  [2026-02-05 15:09:26]  Fatal server error: [2026-02-05 15:09:26] Caught signal 6 (Aborted). Server aborting [2026-02-05 15:09:26]  [2026-02-05 15:09:26]  Please consult the XLibre support: https://www.xlibre.net/ [2026-02-05 15:09:26] Please also check the log file at "/home/lev/.local/share/xorg/Xorg.0.log" for additional information. [2026-02-05 15:09:26]  [2026-02-05 15:09:26] (EE) Server terminated with error (1). Closing log file.picom crash Xorg log:[2026-02-02 16:36:12]  [2026-02-02 16:36:12] Backtrace: [2026-02-02 16:36:12] 0: /usr/bin/X (xorg_backtrace+0x54) [0x55ee84df26d4] [2026-02-02 16:36:12] 1: /usr/bin/X (0x55ee84cb4000+0x142c3f) [0x55ee84df6c3f] [2026-02-02 16:36:12] 2: /usr/lib64/libc.so.6 (0x7fbac1427000+0x3d910) [0x7fbac1464910] [2026-02-02 16:36:12] 3: /usr/lib64/libc.so.6 (0x7fbac1427000+0x95d3c) [0x7fbac14bcd3c] [2026-02-02 16:36:12] 4: /usr/lib64/libc.so.6 (gsignal+0x16) [0x7fbac14647e6] [2026-02-02 16:36:12] 5: /usr/lib64/libc.so.6 (abort+0x28) [0x7fbac144c30b] [2026-02-02 16:36:12] 6: /usr/lib64/libc.so.6 (0x7fbac1427000+0x264d6) [0x7fbac144d4d6] [2026-02-02 16:36:12] 7: /usr/lib64/libc.so.6 (0x7fbac1427000+0x9fe27) [0x7fbac14c6e27] [2026-02-02 16:36:12] 8: /usr/lib64/libc.so.6 (0x7fbac1427000+0x9febe) [0x7fbac14c6ebe] [2026-02-02 16:36:12] 9: /usr/lib64/libc.so.6 (__libc_free+0x200) [0x7fbac14cbf10] [2026-02-02 16:36:12] 10: /usr/lib64/xorg/modules/xlibre-25/drivers/video/amdgpu_drv.so (0x7fbac1b6b000+0x132e1) [0x7fbac1b7e2e1] [2026-02-02 16:36:12] 11: /usr/bin/X (0x55ee84cb4000+0xc628b) [0x55ee84d7a28b] [2026-02-02 16:36:12] 12: /usr/bin/X (0x55ee84cb4000+0xc681e) [0x55ee84d7a81e] [2026-02-02 16:36:12] 13: /usr/bin/X (0x55ee84cb4000+0x179adc) [0x55ee84e2dadc] [2026-02-02 16:36:12] 14: /usr/bin/X (0x55ee84cb4000+0x97865) [0x55ee84d4b865] [2026-02-02 16:36:12] 15: /usr/bin/X (0x55ee84cb4000+0x39d25) [0x55ee84cedd25] [2026-02-02 16:36:12] 16: /usr/bin/X (UnmapWindow+0x232) [0x55ee84d44402] [2026-02-02 16:36:12] 17: /usr/bin/X (0x55ee84cb4000+0x55790) [0x55ee84d09790] [2026-02-02 16:36:12] 18: /usr/bin/X (0x55ee84cb4000+0x5c2fb) [0x55ee84d102fb] [2026-02-02 16:36:12] 19: /usr/bin/X (0x55ee84cb4000+0x610a3) [0x55ee84d150a3] [2026-02-02 16:36:12] 20: /usr/lib64/libc.so.6 (0x7fbac1427000+0x273ae) [0x7fbac144e3ae] [2026-02-02 16:36:12] 21: /usr/lib64/libc.so.6 (__libc_start_main+0x89) [0x7fbac144e469] [2026-02-02 16:36:12] 22: /usr/bin/X (_start+0x25) [0x55ee84cd1535] [2026-02-02 16:36:12]  [2026-02-02 16:36:12]  Fatal server error: [2026-02-02 16:36:12] Caught signal 6 (Aborted). Server aborting [2026-02-02 16:36:12]  [2026-02-02 16:36:12]  Please consult the XLibre support: https://www.xlibre.net/ [2026-02-02 16:36:12] Please also check the log file at "/home/lev/.local/share/xorg/Xorg.0.log" for additional information. [2026-02-02 16:36:12]  [2026-02-02 16:36:12] (EE) Server terminated with error (1). Closing log file.
How to use UFW with nftables? How to use UFW with nftables?u/PartMysterious4688•8 days agoHow to use UFW with nftables?DiscussionI want to use nftables with UFW, my current UFW setup is still using the deprecated iptables.
Brightness problem finally solved and Niri rice(Minimal) Brightness problem finally solved and Niri rice(Minimal)u/PartMysterious4688•1 mo. agoBrightness problem finally solved and Niri rice(Minimal)Screenshot
How do i compile a ultra minimal kernel that consumes least amount of ram possible i wanna make a gentoo + dwm setup thats consumes less than 60mb How do i compile a ultra minimal kernel that consumes least amount of ram possible i wanna make a gentoo + dwm setup thats consumes less than 60mbu/GuiltyVisit9119•1 mo. agoHow do i compile a ultra minimal kernel that consumes least amount of ram possible i wanna make a gentoo + dwm setup thats consumes less than 60mbDiscussionI am coming from void linux and i have compiled my kernel many times but how do i compile a ultra minimal kernel.
i love migu i love miguu/frogget39•1 mo. agoi love miguScreenshot
Guy I got my gentoo headless system to boot in freakin 2 sec.... Guy I got my gentoo headless system to boot in freakin 2 sec....u/GuiltyVisit9119•23 days agoGuy I got my gentoo headless system to boot in freakin 2 sec....DiscussionFinally nearly 200 kernel recompiles later i finally did with ram usage of just 115mb, everything built into the kernel and only drivers for my exact hardware no features i don't need and as functional as a normal system.
Installed Gentoo a week ago and I beyond love it! Installed Gentoo a week ago and I beyond love it!u/j0nini•1 mo. agoInstalled Gentoo a week ago and I beyond love it!Story
Can you identify? Can you identify?u/Suitable-Name•19 days agoCan you identify?DiscussionCan you identify?r/Crystals•19 days agoCan you identify?19upvotes·10comments
Stabilization process. Stabilization process.u/Tumbleweeds5•8 days agoStabilization process.DiscussionI'm just trying to understand what happens when a stabilization bug is filed. I would assume, it would be only approved if no issues exist with compiling it on supported profiles. My question is due to an specific package (socat) stabilized in the last couple of days that will not compile in Musl, but that bug was filed in December, so the package was stabilized regardless of a known bug. In my 2 years using Gentoo, that was a first. So, I'm curious if that was just an oversight, or the Musl profile is not part of the requirements to stabilize a package.BTW, this is not a rant, just a genuine question. I really appreciate the people who donate their spare time to keep this amazing distro alive.
gentoo on asus vivobook laptop gentoo on asus vivobook laptopu/eningene•20 days agogentoo on asus vivobook laptopDiscussion
Security of overlays Security of overlaysu/diacid•9 days agoSecurity of overlaysDiscussionUnsure if it should be support flair... Anyways.When i was new to Gentoo I read in the wiki about overlays.... I am unsure I understand it correctly.Gentoo overlay, I can trust it as much as I trust the original stage files, it's the official regulated deal.Guru overlay is like the AUROther overlays are like downloading random .deb from someone's website.Did I get it?
No distcc, no cross-compiling, just raw Atom power No distcc, no cross-compiling, just raw Atom poweru/Giggio417•1 mo. agoNo distcc, no cross-compiling, just raw Atom powerStory
She's done. She's done.u/Bl9zzz•12 days agoShe's done.Screenshot
Wired error when mounting Wired error when mountingu/Working_Bandicoot_91•9 days agoWired error when mountingSupport
My first experience with Gentoo My first experience with Gentoou/Used-Fortune1125•1 mo. agoMy first experience with GentooDiscussion
I got cursed and lost make.conf I got cursed and lost make.confu/jessecreamy•1 mo. agoI got cursed and lost make.confTipRIP me. My Gen disk didn't have snapshot. Shot me, how to get back make.conf, also all rule set belike package.keywords, package.mask, package.use, package.env.
First Gentoo installation First Gentoo installationu/Netherstar1989•1 mo. agoFirst Gentoo installationScreenshot
RDRND Instruction set? RDRND Instruction set?u/limewayz•9 days agoRDRND Instruction set?Support
Gentoo pixel dream Gentoo pixel dreamu/Roman_og•9 days agoGentoo pixel dreamScreenshotGentoo pixel dreamr/hyprland•9 days agoGentoo pixel dream157upvotes·13comments
Tips/ Things you recommend Tips/ Things you recommendu/Specific-Line-9109•10 days agoTips/ Things you recommendTipI want to install gentoo, and I know that it requires like manual compilation i also now that gentoo-bin is a set up binary that like gives you the kernel precompiled I ,plan on, learning gentoo but installing it on a vm first then on my system my questions are :-Which is the best Vm to do this ? 1.1 . best config for VM as I have 16gb ram 512gb ssd and 8 cores and 16threads but I dont have a dedicated graphics card, I have GPU?Is gentoo-bin precompiled kernel okay as I dont want to waste hours in compiling the kernel on my first install both on hardware and on system itselfI plan to use flatpak for apps like browsers..?Any general tips you recommended for this excersize preferable things for my machine and not vm ofc
cachyos-sources 6.18.2 won't build with LLVM=1 cachyos-sources 6.18.2 won't build with LLVM=1u/JoeMamaSex420•1 mo. agocachyos-sources 6.18.2 won't build with LLVM=1SupportClang version 21.configherePackage versions for llvm packageshereOutput of makeLLVM=1 -j12:SYNC include/config/auto.confHOSTCC scripts/basic/fixdepHOSTCC scripts/basic/fixdepDESCEND objtoolINSTALL libsubcmd_headersCALL scripts/checksyscalls.shLD vmlinux.old.lld: error: vmlinux.a(arch/x86/boot/startup/gdt_idt.pi.o):(.text) is being placed in '.text'ld.lld: error: vmlinux.a(arch/x86/boot/startup/gdt_idt.pi.o):(__patchable_function_entries) is being placed in '__patchable_function_entries'ld.lld: error: vmlinux.a(arch/x86/boot/startup/gdt_idt.pi.o):(.init.text) is being placed in '.init.text'ld.lld: error: vmlinux.a(arch/x86/boot/startup/gdt_idt.pi.o):(__patchable_function_entries) is being placed in '__patchable_function_entries'ld.lld: error: vmlinux.a(arch/x86/boot/startup/gdt_idt.pi.o):(.data..page_aligned) is being placed in '.data..page_aligned'ld.lld: error: vmlinux.a(arch/x86/boot/startup/gdt_idt.pi.o):(.comment) is being placed in '.comment'ld.lld: error: vmlinux.a(arch/x86/boot/startup/map_kernel.pi.o):(.text) is being placed in '.text'ld.lld: error: vmlinux.a(arch/x86/boot/startup/map_kernel.pi.o):(.init.text) is being placed in '.init.text'ld.lld: error: vmlinux.a(arch/x86/boot/startup/map_kernel.pi.o):(__patchable_function_entries) is being placed in '__patchable_function_entries'ld.lld: error: vmlinux.a(arch/x86/boot/startup/map_kernel.pi.o):(.altinstructions) is being placed in '.altinstructions'ld.lld: error: vmlinux.a(arch/x86/boot/startup/map_kernel.pi.o):(.altinstr_replacement) is being placed in '.altinstr_replacement'ld.lld: error: vmlinux.a(arch/x86/boot/startup/map_kernel.pi.o):(.altinstr_aux) is being placed in '.altinstr_aux'ld.lld: error: vmlinux.a(arch/x86/boot/startup/map_kernel.pi.o):(.comment) is being placed in '.comment'ld.lld: error: vmlinux.a(arch/x86/entry/entry.o):(.text) is being placed in '.text'ld.lld: error: vmlinux.a(arch/x86/entry/entry.o):(.noinstr.text) is being placed in '.noinstr.text'ld.lld: error: vmlinux.a(arch/x86/entry/entry.o):(.discard.annotate_insn) is being placed in '.discard.annotate_insn'ld.lld: error: vmlinux.a(arch/x86/entry/entry.o):(.altinstructions) is being placed in '.altinstructions'ld.lld: error: vmlinux.a(arch/x86/entry/entry.o):(.altinstr_replacement) is being placed in '.altinstr_replacement'ld.lld: error: vmlinux.a(arch/x86/entry/entry.o):(.export_symbol) is being placed in '.export_symbol'ld.lld: error: vmlinux.a(arch/x86/entry/entry.o):(.entry.text) is being placed in '.entry.text'ld.lld: error: too many errors emitted, stopping now (use --error-limit=0 to see all errors)make[2]: *** [scripts/Makefile.vmlinux_o:73: vmlinux.o] Error 1make[1]: *** [/usr/src/linux-6.18.2-cachyos/Makefile:1227: vmlinux_o] Error 2make: *** [Makefile:248: __sub-make] Error 2
Forgot how lean old systems were (2008 livecd) Forgot how lean old systems were (2008 livecd)u/varsnef•24 days agoForgot how lean old systems were (2008 livecd)Screenshot
Can I directly use kernels from kernel.org Can I directly use kernels from kernel.orgu/AmountComfortable499•1 mo. agoCan I directly use kernels from kernel.orgDiscussionHello everybody, recently got into gentoo and was wondering if I could use kernels directly fromkernel.org(ik there is not much use for it as you can get the latest stable kernels from portage).I did notice that kernels downloaded from gentoo's repos have an additional gentoo specific section. Are these essential for functionality or is it just for a little performance boost.Thanks
How is dinit nowadays? How is dinit nowadays?u/Wise-Appointment-881•10 days agoHow is dinit nowadays?Discussion
First time installing Gentoo UEFI First time installing Gentoo UEFIu/chachi2347•10 days agoFirst time installing Gentoo UEFISupport
I'm going to cross post this. Let's do an experiment. I'm going to cross post this. Let's do an experiment.u/Wise-Appointment-881•10 days agoI'm going to cross post this. Let's do an experiment.DiscussionOkay, so I’m trying to decide between installing Void Linux or Gentoo.​- I’m using an all-AMD laptop with 16GB of DDR5 RAM and a terabyte of storage.My plan is to ask the Gentoo subreddit why they use that distro and why they might recommend it, then do the same for the Void subreddit.​I understand that many of these factorsaresubjective, but any information is helpful. I’m interested to see the discussions that arise between the two communities, and hopefully, it will helpmechoose the most practical distribution for my needs.​BUTI’m not looking for answers like "there is no real answer" or "it’s all subjective." I want genuine reasoning and speculation on what might be a good fit for me, or really just general discussion from current users. Do you personally recommend it?​My Use Case:​Primary: Development and studying.​Secondary: General use, including video editing, photo editing, writing, and digital art.​If I go with Gentoo, I intend to use OpenRC or another community-supported init system.I love the feeling of an optimized, lightweight system, even on capable hardware. I prefer something small, understandable, and organized where I know exactly what is going on and where everything is located.I'm aware of some things, like I probably shouldn't update on battery power if I use Gentoo for obvious reasons. I suppose Void is better in that regard, and with update/install speed.I hear XBPS is a really good package manager.I hear that Void Linux is pretty good when it comes to supporting a ports-like system. (via XBPS-src)I know Gentoo has almost unmatched flexibility, and it is incredibly efficient.I know both are very stable.Is the time investment that comes with Gentoo worth it, and for what reasons do you think it is?How is runit or dinit/alternative init systems on Gentoo?I’m not afraid of manual installations; I’ve done them before. I am comfortable reading documentation and I'm pretty good at troubleshooting and figuring things out.​Thanks so much!
Sddm + plasma on wayland Sddm + plasma on waylandu/Sky_is_the_limit0•1 mo. agoSddm + plasma on waylandSupportafter successful authentication via SDDM, the Plasma session starts correctly and remains active for approximately 30 seconds. After this period, the session is terminated and the user is returned to the SDDM login screen (login loop). When i do it with autologin it works fine
Permission denied to change KDE Wallet settings Permission denied to change KDE Wallet settingsu/Primary_Concept_3147•1 mo. agoPermission denied to change KDE Wallet settingsSupport[Solved]Results that following the guide of elogind to make it work with proc mounted with hidepid as «hidepid=2,gid=polkitd» make polkit-kde-agent fail to autostart.This make that polkit fail to display the message to put the password.Removing that two options from the mount instructions allows polkit-kde-agent to work.I get the answer from thisPolkit Agent wont startfrom the gentoo forum.Hello, happy new year!I have a problem with KDE wallet and kwalletmanager since installation.I can change settings of kwallet from the kwalletrc file. But when trying to change the settings in the System settings every time I get an error with «Permission denied»; the same error if I try to change from kwalletmanager.And I try to get a more meaningful error for syslog but this is what i getJan  3 01:37:42 www dbus-daemon[1552]: [system] Activating service name='org.kde.kcontrol.kcmkwallet5' requested by ':1.135' (uid=1000 pid=10385 comm="") (using servicehelper)  Jan  3 01:37:42 www dbus-daemon[1552]: [system] Successfully activated service 'org.kde.kcontrol.kcmkwallet5'I have kwallet, kwallet-runtime and kwalletmanager in the last stable version. I use openrc and elogind; not systemd.Thank you for your help
I need help I need helpu/Working_Bandicoot_91•10 days agoI need helpSupport
Any easily-obtainable non-x86/arm machines I could use to play around with the other supported architectures? Any easily-obtainable non-x86/arm machines I could use to play around with the other supported architectures?u/Kaz498•11 days agoAny easily-obtainable non-x86/arm machines I could use to play around with the other supported architectures?Discussion
LLVM Profiles - Still "exp" due to targets? LLVM Profiles - Still "exp" due to targets?u/alhamdu1i11a•11 days agoLLVM Profiles - Still "exp" due to targets?DiscussionCalling any advanced Gentoo wizards!I'm doing research for my next Gentoo install and I want to attempt a "shiny, elusive" gcc-less system (yes I know portage/binutils hard-dep YAP)My understanding was that these profiles/stages are marked as experimental because of some weird behaviours with the hard-requirement for all targets. Namely, Rust and lld would break if they were compiled with different targets to clang and llvm-core.So us users were removing/changing their targets with the LLVM_TARGETS env variable, which only caused rebuilds for clang and llvm, but not lld (or rust). Then, when trying to use the newly built sleek, tight and lean binaries (without the unused targets), lld would complain because it had been compiled with different targets.From reading the 3 main bugs that were tracking this (namely for rust, clang and lld), it appears that around July last year Sam and Michal had a "fix" for clang and lld, but not Rust (?) because Rust needs itself to build, and no matter what, if you changed the LLVM_TARGETS you'd be calling a rust with different targets to the clang and lld you just rebuilt.This commit was reverted by Sam not long after the pull request, for the above Rust problem, but all these bugs are now marked as resolved in bugzilla.https://bugs.gentoo.org/767700https://bugs.gentoo.org/768267https://bugs.gentoo.org/735154Is there a new bug opened? Was there an announcement somewhere I can read how the guys fixed this? Are these stages/profiles likely to soon be marked as stable?
Noctalia-shell is now available in Guru Noctalia-shell is now available in Guruu/CheCheDaWaff•1 mo. agoNoctalia-shell is now available in GuruStoryHi all. About two weeks ago I shared an ebuild here for gui-apps/noctalia-shell (https://www.reddit.com/r/Gentoo/comments/1pou503/ebuild_for_noctalia_quickshell/), which is a set of config files for quickshell.I'm pleased to say I submitted a cleaned-up version to guru and it's now available on the master branch.After years of using Gentoo it's nice to make a contribution, even if it's small :)
Second time using Gentoo First time actually liking it :) Second time using Gentoo First time actually liking it :)u/Bitter-Bathroom-9467•18 days agoSecond time using Gentoo First time actually liking it :)Screenshot
I need one to use this application but it uses Qt5 I need one to use this application but it uses Qt5u/omgmyusernameistaken•11 days agoI need one to use this application but it uses Qt5SupportSOLVED: VM LMDE7 was all I needed 🥳So my problem is that I need this one app for accounting and it's only an appimage (or .tar file) at the moment and the latest version is from 2021. I've used it earlier but now Qt5 is deprecated and it uses Qt5. Appimage won't open and when I tried to make the package from .tar file got this:makegcc -o t-lasku t-lasku-relocatable \`-lQt5Script -lQt5Sql -lQt5Xml -lQt5XmlPatterns \`  `-lQt5Gui -lQt5Widgets -lQt5PrintSupport -lQt5Core \`  `-lpthread -lstdc++ -lm`/usr/lib/gcc/x86_64-pc-linux-gnu/15/../../../../x86_64-pc-linux-gnu/bin/ld: cannot find -lQt5Xml: No such file or directorycollect2: error: ld returned 1 exit statusmake: *** [Makefile:2: all] Error 1QT5 is deprecated so how to proceed? The program has website (only in Finnish sorry):https://helineva.net/t-lasku/
Is Gentoo more faster than CachyOS? Is Gentoo more faster than CachyOS?u/Tuskun06•1 mo. agoIs Gentoo more faster than CachyOS?Support
I installed Gentoo for the first time, and it's not as difficult as I thought :) I installed Gentoo for the first time, and it's not as difficult as I thought :)u/speedycord2•1 mo. agoI installed Gentoo for the first time, and it's not as difficult as I thought :)Screenshot
Can't boot after installing gentoo Can't boot after installing gentoou/MyrhoAM•18 days agoCan't boot after installing gentooSupport
My first Gentoo installation My first Gentoo installationu/FinancialCourt953•10 days agoMy first Gentoo installationScreenshot
haven't installed Gentoo in over 20 years... haven't installed Gentoo in over 20 years...u/poeticg33k•13 days agohaven't installed Gentoo in over 20 years...ScreenshotReally nice to be back!
Is Gentoo More Secure and Stable Than Arch Linux? Is Gentoo More Secure and Stable Than Arch Linux?[deleted]•1 mo. agoIs Gentoo More Secure and Stable Than Arch Linux?DiscussionI am planning to move from Arch Linux to a distro that is less “user-friendly,” follows a “do it yourself” philosophy, and is minimalist. Gentoo seems like a good choice, and the Gentoo Wiki looks much more developed compared to the Arch Wiki.My main reasons for switching are:I recently learned that the AUR is not as secure as I thought. Last year, malware was found in the AUR because almost anyone can upload packages. This makes me nervous.Sometimes Arch Linux doesn’t let me log in if I leave my computer for a while and try to log back in. Occasionally, it doesn’t accept my admin password. It seems there’s some problem with the program/package behind the login/logout system. This has never happened to me with other distros, not even rolling releases.So my question is: how does Gentoo handle these issues? Is it more secure and stable? Are packages tested and validated frequently before being uploaded?Thank you!
can't emerge pulseaudio-daemon / can't remove pipewire can't emerge pulseaudio-daemon / can't remove pipewireu/TurtleSoso•11 days agocan't emerge pulseaudio-daemon / can't remove pipewireSupport[solved] pipewire was installed to replace pulseaudio, see comments for more details around pipewire problemsI was using pulseaudio and after a recent update I got no more sound because pulseaudio is now pulseaudio-daemon and that can't be emerged due to pipewire. (I don't recall why I needed pipewire so I decided to remove it alltogether to get back the pulseaudio working) -- now I did anotheremerge -avuDN @worldafter adding-pipewireto the use flags, but no luck there, it seems that it can't be removed at this point: (I thank you for any idea you might come up with to fix this)turtle /home/sorin # emerge -av pulseaudio-daemon  These are the packages that would be merged, in order:  Calculating dependencies... done! Dependency resolution took 2.78 s (backtrack: 0/20).  [ebuild  N     ] media-libs/speexdsp-1.2.1::gentoo  ABI_X86="(64) -32 (-x32)" CPU_FLAGS_X86="sse sse2" 0 KiB [ebuild  N     ] media-libs/webrtc-audio-processing-1.3-r3:1::gentoo  ABI_X86="(64) -32 (-x32)" 0 KiB [ebuild  N     ] media-plugins/alsa-plugins-1.2.12::gentoo  USE="mix pulseaudio usb_stream -arcam_av -debug -ffmpeg -jack -libsamplerate -oss -speex -verify-sig" ABI_X86="(64) -32 (-x32)" 0 KiB [ebuild  N     ] media-sound/pulseaudio-daemon-17.0-r1::gentoo  USE="X alsa alsa-plugin asyncns dbus elogind gdbm glib orc ssl udev webrtc-aec -aptx -bluetooth -equalizer -fftw -gstreamer -jack -ldac -lirc -ofono-headset (-oss) (-selinux) -sox (-system-wide) (-systemd) -tcpd -test -valgrind -zeroconf" 0 KiB [blocks B      ] media-video/pipewire[sound-server(+)] ("media-video/pipewire[sound-server(+)]" is soft blocking media-sound/pulseaudio-daemon-17.0-r1) [blocks B      ] media-sound/pulseaudio-daemon ("media-sound/pulseaudio-daemon" is soft blocking media-video/pipewire-1.4.9-r1)  Total: 4 packages (4 new), Size of downloads: 0 KiB Conflict: 2 blocks (2 unsatisfied)   * Error: The above package list contains packages which cannot be  * installed at the same time on the same system.    (media-video/pipewire-1.4.9-r1:0/0.4::gentoo, installed) pulled in by     >=media-video/pipewire-1.0.5-r1:0/0.4= required by (media-video/wireplumber-0.5.12:0/0.5::gentoo, installed) USE="elogind -doc (-system-service) (-systemd) -test" ABI_X86="(64)" LUA_SINGLE_TARGET="lua5-4 -lua5-3"     >=media-video/pipewire-1.0.5-r1:= required by (media-video/wireplumber-0.5.12:0/0.5::gentoo, installed) USE="elogind -doc (-system-service) (-systemd) -test" ABI_X86="(64)" LUA_SINGLE_TARGET="lua5-4 -lua5-3"     >=media-video/pipewire-0.3:= required by (sys-apps/xdg-desktop-portal-1.20.3:0/0::gentoo, installed) USE="seccomp udev -flatpak -geolocation (-systemd) -test" ABI_X86="(64)"     media-video/pipewire[sound-server(+)] required by (media-libs/libpulse-17.0:0/0::gentoo, installed) USE="X asyncns dbus glib gtk -doc (-selinux) (-systemd) -test -valgrind" ABI_X86="32 (64) (-x32)"     >=media-video/pipewire-0.3:0/0.4= required by (sys-apps/xdg-desktop-portal-1.20.3:0/0::gentoo, installed) USE="seccomp udev -flatpak -geolocation (-systemd) -test" ABI_X86="(64)"    (media-sound/pulseaudio-daemon-17.0-r1:0/0::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge) pulled in by     pulseaudio-daemon   For more information about Blocked Packages, please refer to the following section of the Gentoo Linux x86 Handbook (architecture is irrelevant):  https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Handbook:X86/Working/Portage#Blocked_packages   !!! The following installed packages are masked: - media-sound/pulseaudio-16.1::gentoo (masked by: package.mask) /var/db/repos/gentoo/profiles/package.mask: # Andreas Sturmlechner <asturm@gentoo.org> (2025-08-29) # Obsolete transitional meta package. Bug #961795. Removal on 2025-09-28.  For more information, see the MASKED PACKAGES section in the emerge man page or refer to the Gentoo Handbook.  turtle /home/sorin # emerge --deselect pipewire >>> No matching atoms found in "world" favorites file... turtle /home/sorin # emerge --deselect media-video/pipewire >>> No matching atoms found in "world" favorites file... turtle /home/sorin # emerge --depclean !$ emerge --depclean media-video/pipewire  Calculating dependencies... done! >>> No packages selected for removal by depclean >>> To see reverse dependencies, use --verbose
New Year, New Gentoo New Year, New Gentoou/bankroll5441•1 mo. agoNew Year, New GentooScreenshot
No available API for Audio (pastebin for previous removal) No available API for Audio (pastebin for previous removal)u/JoeMamaSex420•1 mo. agoNo available API for Audio (pastebin for previous removal)SupportNo available API for Audio (pastebin for previous removal)r/cemu•1 mo. agoNo available API for Audio (pastebin for previous removal)Here is the loghttps://pastebin.com/8x5gB83vI tried running it asapulse ./Cemubut it does not work. Running the app image on gentoo and use pipewire for sound.1upvote·1comment
Gentoo on P3 using NAS as a buildhost Gentoo on P3 using NAS as a buildhostu/csepulvedab•1 mo. agoGentoo on P3 using NAS as a buildhostScreenshotThe idea was to compile Gentoo on the first computer where I used Gentoo several years ago (maybe 20 years ago).I bought an old Pentium 3 (1200mhz) with 512 MB of RAM. It’s not exactly like the one I had back then; that one was a 550 MHz running at 733 MHz (by changing the bus speed from 100 to 133 MHz) and had 384 MB of RAM.The first try was painful; it took forever to compile, so I tried to use distcc, but it was almost the same slow.Finally, and what I want to share with you is that I spun up a Gentoo container on my home NAS (TrueNAS) (Xeon(R) CPU E5-2680 v4 with 64 GB of RAM), and chrooted a new environment using the same eflags and USE flags that I want on the Pentium, following these instructions that I found on Reddit:https://www.reddit.com/r/Gentoo/comments/1de7nmi/comment/nwzfo0o/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web3x&utm_name=web3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_buttonTo speed up the process, I created a script that works like a wrapper to execute a command on the remote computer and then execute the same command using sudo on the local one. So, for example, if I want to install Neovim, I execute:./remote_to_local_emerge.sh -- emerge neovimThe script is here:https://gist.github.com/csepulveda/ae7e2bb986637b52fe09929674c2e544And that’s it. It connects to the NAS using SSH, executes the chroot instructions, emerges Neovim generating the binaries, and then executes the emerge command locally, finding the binary packages and skipping the compilation.I want to share that with you because im very happy to have running gentoo in a machine very similar that i have in my early linux days.Next weeks i will get a Pentium I, to check if i could make the same :)PS1:I realized that compiling any modern web browser isn’t possible due to the lack of SSE2 support 😞, so I’m using Firefox via X11 forwarding from an Ubuntu machine.PS2:It’s also not possible to compile anything with GTK support because it depends on SVG libraries that require Rust, and Rust itself requires SSE2.
Building chromium with CFI enabled Building chromium with CFI enabledu/Ffahoh•12 days agoBuilding chromium with CFI enabledSupportHi, anyone knows how to compile chromium with control flow integrity enabled (using emerge and the default ebuild)?  I saw it's mentioned in the ebuild but I can't understand if it's enabled or not
MentalOutlaw Bash and Zsh prompts (with color!) MentalOutlaw Bash and Zsh prompts (with color!)u/hyper_radiant294•18 days agoMentalOutlaw Bash and Zsh prompts (with color!)Screenshot
How do I install rust nightly without using it to build other packages? How do I install rust nightly without using it to build other packages?u/Treeniks•1 mo. agoHow do I install rust nightly without using it to build other packages?SupportI needed access to a nightly rust compiler for development and found that I needed to install the live ebuild for that. But now, all packages I merge get built with rust-bin:9999 which is not what I want. I thought that's whateselect-rustis for? It is set to a stable rust version, not 9999.Will emerge always select the latest version if the respective ebuild doesn't define a max version? If so, how do people do rust development when they need nightly? Is the idea just to use rustup in that case?
Gentoo Control Center Gentoo Control Centeru/Total-Hyena-6354•11 days agoGentoo Control CenterDiscussion
Reminder Reminderu/Firefighterjeremy_•1 mo. agoReminderTipIt is the the new year folks and i would like remind you to open a terminal and put emerge -avuDN @world
Cryptsetup spitting out device-mapper: reload ioctl failed error Cryptsetup spitting out device-mapper: reload ioctl failed erroru/Perfect-Werewolf02•1 mo. agoCryptsetup spitting out device-mapper: reload ioctl failed errorSupportCryptsetup spitting out device-mapper: reload ioctl failed error. It works on my Fedora live usb but doesn't work on my fresh gentoo install.I have also ensured to do all the recommended kernel configurations as told in the dm-crypt gentoo wiki page, but still it doesn't work for some reason.Could you guys please guide me on how to fix this. Also if you need any logs, then let me know.I am also attaching my entire kernel config for your referencehttps://www.mediafire.com/file/nfhmbtjq5tcfwpe/.config/fileEDIT: Switched to a newer 6.18.2 kernel and it works as expected
Gentoo broke Gentoo brokeu/FindingKitchen4734•12 days agoGentoo brokeStoryLast night I tried to install firefox in musl/llvm profile it compiled with gcc which was pulled by nodejs, then Iread nodejs ebuildI thought I can build it without gcc using llvm-runtimes/libatomic-stub, by that time gcc was already merged so I unmerged it and then tried to compile any program like app-arch/brotli it wasn't compiling, i successfuly broke the llvm compiler (now I can't emerge programs which are written in c/c++/rust)But then I realised that I enabled FEATURE="buildpkg" then I remerged gcc and now I can compile every program, now how can I fix this? I don't want gcc if I unmerged gcc I can't even compile simple programs so how can I properly remove gcc?& I'd like to know is it possible to build nodejs without gcc?Currently I don't have that build rn cause I'm re-installing but it will me to understand so I can prevent that issue so I thought to ask here
Portage on TTY + Zelij Portage on TTY + Zeliju/diacid•1 mo. agoPortage on TTY + ZelijScreenshot
Systemd or OpenRC? What’s the Best Choice? Systemd or OpenRC? What’s the Best Choice?u/Prior_Bluejay8164•1 mo. agoSystemd or OpenRC? What’s the Best Choice?DiscussionI’m in process of installing Gentoo and i’m a bit torn between Systemd or OpenRC as the init system. I plan to use a window manager like i3 or hyprland, so i’m curious how each init system plays with those enviroiments. Which option would you recommend and why?p.s. Sorry, my English is not so good
Kernel GCC Clang ClangLTO Kernel GCC Clang ClangLTOu/krumpfwylg•1 mo. agoKernel GCC Clang ClangLTODiscussionPhoronix recently published a benchmark comparing kernel compiled by GCC, by Clang, and by Clang with LTO enabledhttps://www.phoronix.com/review/linux-kernel-llvm-clang-lto/5Benchmarks used are mostly synthetic ones, they might reflect a database workflow usage. But I'm wondering, could a Clang-LTOized kernel affect Wine, and allow a noticeable FPS change in games (5% or more), especially when using amdgpu driver ? Or would that fall under a 1% difference compared to a GCC kernel ?
How to set screen brightness in Gentoo permanently. How to set screen brightness in Gentoo permanently.u/PartMysterious4688•1 mo. agoHow to set screen brightness in Gentoo permanently.Support
Windowmaker Problems Windowmaker Problemsu/drinkuranium•23 days agoWindowmaker ProblemsSupport
Does package.accept keywords accept wildcard argumetns so that I can force a keyword for only packages of a certain overlay Does package.accept keywords accept wildcard argumetns so that I can force a keyword for only packages of a certain overlayu/JoeMamaSex420•12 days agoDoes package.accept keywords accept wildcard argumetns so that I can force a keyword for only packages of a certain overlaySupportI want to use packages with ~amd64 keyword enable systemwide for all packges from ::gentoo, but I want to have this disabled and only use stable pacakges for ::guru, in package.accept.keywords can I have something like */*::guru -~amd64 ?
Gentoo Branding for GRUB is now stable Gentoo Branding for GRUB is now stableu/JackmanH420•1 mo. agoGentoo Branding for GRUB is now stableScreenshot
1 week with Gentoo 1 week with Gentoou/eidara•15 days ago1 week with GentooScreenshotbeen running gentoo on an old i3-6006U for a week now. i honestly expected a small bump but this is a total system transformation.before this, on every other distro, there was always this subtle jank. micro-stutters when switching tabs, split-second hangs in menus, just a general "heaviness." i thought it was my old hardware hitting its limit but i was wrong.after stripping my kernel to 13MB and optimizing the toolchain, the fluidity is night and day. what surprised me most is that even binary / closed-source apps feel snappier. i guess since the base system (libc, openssl, kernel) is built specifically for my cpu, the overhead is just gone. system calls feel instant. there's no distro bloat bureaucracy between the hardware and the app.the random freezing and hiccups are just... gone. it’s not just "faster," it's actually fluid.turns out my hardware didn't suck, the "one-size-fits-all" software stacks did. 10/11 would emerge again.
Virtual monitor over wifi Virtual monitor over wifiu/diacid•1 mo. agoVirtual monitor over wifiSupportVirtual monitor over wifir/kde•1 mo. agoVirtual monitor over wifiHello!I started working from home, and realized i need an extra monitor. I am running Omnissa Horizon inside a Debian VM (because I can´t get it running inside Gentoo). Unfortunately my computer does not support USB C display, and I only have two ports. Qemu has no problem making 4 monitors. I tried using krfb-virtualmonitor, but not only i am getting segmentation faults, I have no clue on how to fix it, as i see no documentation anywhere.I also tried connecting to the VM via SPICE and a Rpi, but as soon as the Rpi connects my laptop gets shut off of the connection to virt-viewer.Thanks!1comment
Wanting references for new users Wanting references for new usersu/TJRoyalty_•1 mo. agoWanting references for new usersSupportI'm new to gentoo and want some references to wiki pages, manuals, repos/tools, and videos/channels to better my competency so I can efficiently use gentoo as a daily driver system. Gentoo is my first introduction to source based distributions or package management in general outside of basic package scripts like the AUR. I have gone through the handbook for the minimal install and am in the process of installing my desktop utilities like hyprland, but I feel like I might need some guides for daily driving. I've heard that overlays are something like the AUR and I know I need to look into that, are there any other major parts of gentoo that a new user like me might need to know? Are there any channels that can further develop my competency using this system?
I replaced GNU coreutils with Busybox and bricked my entire system, AMA I replaced GNU coreutils with Busybox and bricked my entire system, AMAu/Silent-Degree-6072•20 days agoI replaced GNU coreutils with Busybox and bricked my entire system, AMADiscussionOk so basically I wanted to de-GNUify Gentoo and I decided to use a separate SSD i had for experimenting. I made a custom hardened musl llvm profile to start with the basic toolchain by using the wiki article. First install went pretty badly, I played around with the profiles and ended up unmerging all my compilers (i did a full system reinstall afterwards). Then I decided to emerge busybox with the make-symlinks flag but it only symlinked some of the stuff in /usr/bin when i did "busybox --install". So I decided to install it in a separate folder, and then paste its contents into /usr/bin. Everything seemed to work but for some reason poweroff wasnt doing anything, so I unplugged my PC. Rebooted into the kernel just fine but now init wont start. I'll probably keep trying to fix it
Grub theme choking, should I wait or work around it? Grub theme choking, should I wait or work around it?u/SexBobomb•1 mo. agoGrub theme choking, should I wait or work around it?Supportmy install is trying to pull in sys-boot/grub-themes-gentoo and it... doesnt like that - I feel like my configuration is pretty typical / not weirdly laid out so should I wait for the package to get re-addressed or should I be more proactive in fixing this (by removing the branding use flag for instance)* Messages for package sys-boot/grub-themes-gentoo-1.0-r2:   * Your /efi partition is not mounted  * Please mount it and retry.  * ERROR: sys-boot/grub-themes-gentoo-1.0-r2::gentoo failed (pretend phase):  *   /efi not mounted  * Call stack:  *                 ebuild.sh, line 143:  Called pkg_pretend  *                 ebuild.sh, line 379:  Called mount-boot_pkg_pretend  *         mount-boot.eclass, line  27:  Called mount-boot_check_status  *   mount-boot-utils.eclass, line  97:  Called die  * The specific snippet of code:  *   				die -n "${partition} not mounted"  * If you need support, post the output of `emerge --info '=sys-boot/grub-themes-gentoo-1.0-r2::gentoo'`,  * the complete build log and the output of `emerge -pqv '=sys-boot/grub-themes-gentoo-1.0-r2::gentoo'`.  * The complete build log is located at '/var/tmp/portage/sys-boot/grub-themes-gentoo-1.0-r2/temp/build.log'.  * The ebuild environment file is located at '/var/tmp/portage/sys-boot/grub-themes-gentoo-1.0-r2/temp/die.env'.  * Working directory: '/var/tmp/portage/sys-boot/grub-themes-gentoo-1.0-r2/empty'  * S: '/var/tmp/portage/sys-boot/grub-themes-gentoo-1.0-r2/work/gentoo-grub-themes-1.0' [ERROR] Task was destroyed but it is pending!
Kernel at reboot Kernel at rebootu/hangint3n•12 days agoKernel at rebootSupport
I want to learn Gentoo! I want to learn Gentoo!u/SuperBiscoitinho•24 days agoI want to learn Gentoo!SupportI've migrated from Windows a couple months ago, and decided to go for Mint for the ease of use. It's great and all but, truth be told I'd like to go deeper into the Linux experienceI know Gentoo is definitely not the best for newbies, but I'd like to put in the effort to learn as much as I can about the world of Linux, kinda like how people move to other countries to learn a new language. I know it will be hard and frustrating, but I'd like to try anyways.I have a Chromebook I use for all kinds of testing so I wouldn't be risking my main PC. I also know that the handbook exists and tbh I kinda wanna print it out just so it makes me want to read it more. But I wanted to ask for recommendations of media that helped you guys, be it videos, websites or books that teach the basics of commands and what stuff is.Or hell, tell me to go do something else, I want to have Gentoo as my end goal, the day I see a fully functioning Gentoo desktop will be the day I know I've succeed at fully becoming a Linux
luks headers detachement after configuration luks headers detachement after configurationu/JoeMamaSex420•12 days agoluks headers detachement after configurationSupportI am following the full disk encryption guidehereand I wanted to know if is possible to detach the luks headers later. I do not currently have removable storage to back up the headers onto.
Error getting keys Error getting keysu/Netz77•2 mo. agoError getting keysSupport
An afternoon later.. I've installed Gentoo to a desktop for the first time ever! An afternoon later.. I've installed Gentoo to a desktop for the first time ever!u/emrldgh•2 mo. agoAn afternoon later.. I've installed Gentoo to a desktop for the first time ever!Screenshot
XMRig package 3 versions out of date 6.22-->6.25 request XMRig package 3 versions out of date 6.22-->6.25 requestu/Bubbly_Extreme4986•2 mo. agoXMRig package 3 versions out of date 6.22-->6.25 requestDiscussionI really wanted to compile XMRig on a Gentoo system and absolutely rock-star my hash-rate, but to my dismay the version available is 3 versions old.XMRig does not support compiling a Gentoo system so my only option is the official binary which doesn't use my optimizations
My 10th and final distro My 10th and final distrou/Bubbly_Extreme4986•2 mo. agoMy 10th and final distroScreenshot
Celeron 💀🔥 Celeron 💀🔥u/These_Election_4204•2 mo. agoCeleron 💀🔥Screenshot
All right, I'm joining the Gentoo club. Recent desktop installation. All right, I'm joining the Gentoo club. Recent desktop installation.u/pseudonjms•2 mo. agoAll right, I'm joining the Gentoo club. Recent desktop installation.ScreenshotNot actually my first installation, but the first on my daily PC. I'm not ready to fully commit just yet, so I did this on a USB drive (which I'm sure used up a lot of writes).Apparently, I'm addicted to pain, but I've also feel like that guy in the meme digging for diamonds. Previously, I failed to get it to work on a test desktop and gave up. Then I got it to work on a virtual machine. This time, I had the extra challenges of using disk encryption and a real video card. It took me a couple of days at one point to realize I messed up on building the kernel and needed to start over on that part. But I got very excited when I finally got KDE working late on Friday.It's still buggy in a couple of ways, so there's more work left to do, but it's nice to know I can installjustthe kernel components, services, and applications I want/need. I took notes and made sure to back up the binaries and other essential files from this setup so I that have something to revert to if I mess up on the next round of upgrades.This whole project has certainly forced me to really learn about how operating systems work.
Hyprland Gentoo I set up in 2024 :) Hyprland Gentoo I set up in 2024 :)u/VolggaWax•11 days agoHyprland Gentoo I set up in 2024 :)Screenshot
1st time Gentoo install.. linux_firmware is masked? 1st time Gentoo install.. linux_firmware is masked?u/emrldgh•2 mo. ago1st time Gentoo install.. linux_firmware is masked?SupportSimply put, I've attempted to install gentoo like 3 times now and each time I follow the guide to a T, only to get to the step of installing firmware, and seeing that linux_firmware can't be installed because it's masked. the guide doesn't mention masking or anything, it just says "just emerge it bro." but I can't no matter what.
How to make OBS record on wayland (KDE plasma6) How to make OBS record on wayland (KDE plasma6)u/purelyannoying•13 days agoHow to make OBS record on wayland (KDE plasma6)Supportbasiclly im trying to get OBS Studio recording on Wayland. I've tried everything different USE flags and more, but it seems to work ik it works because I tested it on another distro, so I'm I doing anything wrong, and it also keeps saying the error message warning: [pipewire] Failed to create session, denied or cancelled by user even though I did NOT cancel it do I need to add myself to a group for something? Any help would be appreciated
[dwm] first prototype [dwm] first prototypeu/wiszonic•12 days ago[dwm] first prototypeScreenshot
why is binutils sloted? Which package nees 2.44? why is binutils sloted? Which package nees 2.44?u/fix_and_repair•2 mo. agowhy is binutils sloted? Which package nees 2.44?Discussion[I]2.44-r4 | + + + + + + ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ | 8 o 2.44 | gentoo--------------+-----------------------------+----------+-------2.45    | ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ | 8 # 2.45 | gentoo2.45-r1 | + + + + + + ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ | 8 #      | gentoo[I]2.45.1    | + + + + + + ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ | 8 o      | gentoo2.45.9999    | o o o o o o o o o o o o o o | 8 o      | gentoo--------------+-----------------------------+----------+-------9999    | o o o o o o o o o o o o o o | 8 o 9999 | gentooWheat_Nas /home/roman # equery depends binutils* These packages depend on binutils:app-emulation/wine-proton-10.0.3 (sys-devel/binutils)dev-cpp/highway-1.3.0 (>=sys-devel/binutils-2.44)llvm-core/clang-common-21.1.8 (!default-lld ? sys-devel/binutils)llvm-core/clang-linker-config-21 (!default-lld ? sys-devel/binutils)sys-apps/pciutils-3.14.0 (>=sys-devel/binutils-2.37)sys-devel/gcc-14.3.1_p20251017 (sys-devel/binutils)sys-devel/gcc-15.2.1_p20251220 (sys-devel/binutils)sys-libs/glibc-2.42-r3 (sframe ? >=sys-devel/binutils-2.45)(>=sys-devel/binutils-2.27)Wheat_Nas /home/roman # echo "sys-devel/binutils:2.44" >> /etc/portage/package.maskI am looking for an answer for q: why is binutils sloted? Which package nees 2.44?
New Install, systemd-udevd Appears to Hang on Boot New Install, systemd-udevd Appears to Hang on Bootu/EnolaNek•2 mo. agoNew Install, systemd-udevd Appears to Hang on BootSupport
Gentoo isn’t as Bad as people say. Gentoo isn’t as Bad as people say.u/Karamusch•15 days agoGentoo isn’t as Bad as people say.DiscussionSo people always say gentoo is so complicated and impossible to use but its all just really the installation. Sure use flags can be annoying sometimes, but everything else is great! Some stuff doesnt work but thats okay.I feel like people have Mixed experiences on this but thats just my opinion.(I am not trying to say that use flags or portage are bad, and I think once I finally understand use flags I will love them)Edit: Use flags are great!I finally understand them!
My Gentoo isn’t booting My Gentoo isn’t bootingu/mario_balotell1•14 days agoMy Gentoo isn’t bootingDiscussion
yet another desktop screenshot yet another desktop screenshotu/D1xxe•2 mo. agoyet another desktop screenshotScreenshotFinished rough installation. Now I'm going to clean some configs and world file after that I'm planning to compile my own kernel to feel myself at home :).Installation was smooth and enjoyable. Maybe Gentoo was the linux distro I need after all.On screenshot:- niri + noctalia shell- alacritty- oreo purple cursors- some random wallpaper fromwallhaven.cc
Problems with updating binary-preffered Plasma Problems with updating binary-preffered Plasmau/pdomg•2 mo. agoProblems with updating binary-preffered PlasmaSupportOkay, my setup is pretty simple, It's a Plasma + OpenRC (which works flawlessly) with AMD Ryzen and Nvidia 3060.I would like to avoid compiling massive packages like KDEWhen I try to update my system, I got something like below:❯ sudo emerge --ask --verbose --update --deep --newuse  * IMPORTANT: 16 config files in '/etc/portage' need updating. * See the CONFIGURATION FILES and CONFIGURATION FILES UPDATE TOOLS * sections of the emerge man page to learn how to update config files. These are the packages that would be merged, in order: Calculating dependencies... done! Dependency resolution took 17.58 s (backtrack: 4/20). !!! Multiple package instances within a single package slot have been pulled !!! into the dependency graph, resulting in a slot conflict: kde-plasma/plasma-activities:6  (kde-plasma/plasma-activities-6.5.4-1:6/7::gentoo, binary scheduled for merge) USE="-debug -doc -test" ABI_X86="(64)" pulled in by    kde-plasma/plasma-activities**:6/7=** required by (kde-plasma/plasma-activities-stats-6.5.4-1:6/6::gentoo, binary scheduled for merge) USE="-debug -doc -test" ABI_X86="(64)" ^^^^^                                                                                                                                                                                                                            =kde-plasma/plasma-activities-6.5.4*:6/7= required by (kde-plasma/libplasma-6.5.4-2:6/6::gentoo, binary scheduled for merge) USE="-debug -doc -gles2-only -test" ABI_X86="(64)"    ^                             ^^^^^^^^^^^                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (kde-plasma/plasma-activities-6.4.5-2:6/6::gentoo, binary scheduled for merge) USE="-debug -doc -test" ABI_X86="(64)" pulled in by    kde-plasma/plasma-activities**:6/6=** required by (kde-apps/mailcommon-25.08.3-1:6/25.08::gentoo, binary scheduled for merge) USE="activities -debug -designer -doc -test" ABI_X86="(64)" ^^^^^                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (and 3 more with the same problem) dev-qt/qtdeclarative:6  (dev-qt/qtdeclarative-6.10.1-r1-2:6/6.10.1::gentoo, binary scheduled for merge) USE="jit network opengl sql ssl svg vulkan widgets -accessibility -custom-cflags -qmlls" ABI_X86="(64)" pulled in by    **~**dev-qt/qtdeclarative-6.10.1:6[widgets] required by (dev-qt/qttools-6.10.1-r1-2:6/6.10.1::gentoo, binary scheduled for merge) USE="assistant linguist opengl qdbus qml vulkan widgets (zstd) -custom-cflags -designer -distancefieldgenerator -gles2-only -pixeltool -qdoc -qmlls -qtattributionsscanner -qtdiag -qtplugininfo" ABI_X86="(64)" LLVM_SLOT="21 -17 -18 -19 -20"    ^                     ^^^^^^^^                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (and 6 more with the same problem)  (dev-qt/qtdeclarative-6.9.3-r1:6/6.9.3::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge) USE="jit network sql ssl svg widgets -accessibility -custom-cflags -opengl -qmlls -vulkan" ABI_X86="(64)" pulled in by    dev-qt/qtdeclarative**:6/6.9.3=** required by (dev-libs/qcoro-0.12.0-5:0/0::gentoo, binary scheduled for merge) USE="dbus network qml -examples -test -websockets" ABI_X86="(64)" ^^^^^^^^^                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NOTE: Use the '--verbose-conflicts' option to display parents omitted above It may be possible to solve this problem by using package.mask to prevent one of those packages from being selected. However, it is also possible that conflicting dependencies exist such that they are impossible to satisfy simultaneously.  If such a conflict exists in the dependencies of two different packages, then those packages can not be installed simultaneously. For more information, see MASKED PACKAGES section in the emerge man page or refer to the Gentoo Handbook. The following packages are causing rebuilds:  (dev-qt/qtwebengine-6.10.1:6/6.10.1::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge) causes rebuilds for:    (www-client/falkon-25.08.3:0/0::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)  (dev-qt/qtbase-6.10.1:6/6.10.1::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge) causes rebuilds for:    (kde-frameworks/kidletime-6.20.0-2:6/6.20::gentoo, binary scheduled for merge)    (kde-frameworks/kjobwidgets-6.20.0-2:6/6.20::gentoo, binary scheduled for merge)    (kde-frameworks/kguiaddons-6.20.0-2:6/6.20::gentoo, binary scheduled for merge)    (kde-apps/kontactinterface-25.08.3:6/25.08::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)    (kde-frameworks/kiconthemes-6.20.0-2:6/6.20::gentoo, binary scheduled for merge)    (kde-plasma/kde-cli-tools-6.5.4:6/6::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)    (kde-plasma/libplasma-6.5.4-2:6/6::gentoo, binary scheduled for merge)    (kde-frameworks/kio-6.20.0-3:6/6.20::gentoo, binary scheduled for merge)    (kde-frameworks/kirigami-6.20.0-2:6/6.20::gentoo, binary scheduled for merge)    (kde-apps/dolphin-25.08.3-1:6/6::gentoo, binary scheduled for merge)    (kde-frameworks/kwindowsystem-6.20.0-3:6/6.20::gentoo, binary scheduled for merge)    (kde-frameworks/kdbusaddons-6.20.0-2:6/6.20::gentoo, binary scheduled for merge)    (kde-frameworks/kstatusnotifieritem-6.20.0:6/6.20::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)    (kde-frameworks/kxmlgui-6.20.0-2:6/6.20::gentoo, binary scheduled for merge)    (kde-frameworks/kglobalaccel-6.20.0-2:6/6.20::gentoo, binary scheduled for merge) The following USE changes are necessary to proceed: (see "package.use" in the portage(5) man page for more details) # required by dev-libs/qcoro-0.12.0::gentoo # required by kde-apps/kio-extras-25.08.3::gentoo # required by kde-apps/dolphin-25.08.3::gentoo # required by @__auto_slot_operator _replace_installed__ (argument) =dev-qt/qtdeclarative-6.9.3-r1 -vulkan -opengl Would you like to add these changes to your config files? [Yes/No]My make.conf:/etc/portage🔒   ❯ cat make.conf   # These settings were set by the catalyst build script that automatically # built this stage. # Please consult /usr/share/portage/config/make.conf.example for a more # detailed example. COMMON_FLAGS="-march=native -O2 -pipe" CFLAGS="${COMMON_FLAGS}" CXXFLAGS="${COMMON_FLAGS}" FCFLAGS="${COMMON_FLAGS}" FFLAGS="${COMMON_FLAGS}"   FEATURES="${FEATURES} parallel-fetch parallel-install getbinpkg binpkg-request-signature"   VIDEO_VARDS="nvidia"   MAKEOPTS="-j12"   USE="-gtk -gnome qt5 kde dist-kernel"   # Overrides the profile's ACCEPT_LICENSE default value ACCEPT_LICENSE="-*  LE"   # NOTE: This stage was built with the bindist USE flag enabled   # This sets the language of build output to English. # Please keep this setting intact when reporting bugs. LC_MESSAGES=C.UTF-8   GENTOO_MIRRORS="rsync://mirror.eu.oneandone.net/gentoo/"andetc/portage🔒   ❯ tree . ├── binrepos.conf │   └── gentoobinhost.conf ├── gnupg │   ├── crls.d  [error opening dir] │   ├── dirmngr.conf │   ├── gpg-agent.conf │   ├── gpg.conf │   ├── mykeyid │   ├── openpgp-revocs.d  [error opening dir] │   ├── pass │   ├── private-keys-v1.d  [error opening dir] │   ├── pubring.kbx │   ├── pubring.kbx~ │   ├── tofu.db │   └── trustdb.gpg ├── make.conf ├── make.profile -> ../../var/db/repos/gentoo/profiles/default/linux/amd64/23.0/desktop/plasma ├── package.accept_keywords │   ├── asdf-vm │   ├── gamemode │   ├── goverlay │   ├── mangohud │   ├── nordvpn │   └── steam ├── package.license │   ├── chrome │   ├── discord │   └── nordvpn ├── package.mask ├── package.use │   ├── 00video │   ├── goverlay │   ├── installkernel │   ├── steam │   ├── systemd-boot │   └── zz-autounmask ├── postsync.d │   └── 50-eix-postsync -> ../../../usr/bin/eix-postsync ├── profile │   └── package.use.force ├── repos.conf │   └── eselect-repo.conf └── savedconfig    └── sys-kernel        └── linux-firmware-20250808  17 directories, 30 filesMy make.conf:/etc/portage🔒   ❯ cat make.conf   # These settings were set by the catalyst build script that automatically # built this stage. # Please consult /usr/share/portage/config/make.conf.example for a more # detailed example. COMMON_FLAGS="-march=native -O2 -pipe" CFLAGS="${COMMON_FLAGS}" CXXFLAGS="${COMMON_FLAGS}" FCFLAGS="${COMMON_FLAGS}" FFLAGS="${COMMON_FLAGS}"   FEATURES="${FEATURES} parallel-fetch parallel-install getbinpkg binpkg-request-signature"   VIDEO_VARDS="nvidia"   MAKEOPTS="-j12"   USE="-gtk -gnome qt5 kde dist-kernel"   # Overrides the profile's ACCEPT_LICENSE default value ACCEPT_LICENSE="-*  LE"   # NOTE: This stage was built with the bindist USE flag enabled   # This sets the language of build output to English. # Please keep this setting intact when reporting bugs. LC_MESSAGES=C.UTF-8   GENTOO_MIRRORS="rsync://mirror.eu.oneandone.net/gentoo/" and etc/portage🔒   ❯ tree . ├── binrepos.conf │   └── gentoobinhost.conf ├── gnupg │   ├── crls.d  [error opening dir] │   ├── dirmngr.conf │   ├── gpg-agent.conf │   ├── gpg.conf │   ├── mykeyid │   ├── openpgp-revocs.d  [error opening dir] │   ├── pass │   ├── private-keys-v1.d  [error opening dir] │   ├── pubring.kbx │   ├── pubring.kbx~ │   ├── tofu.db │   └── trustdb.gpg ├── make.conf ├── make.profile -> ../../var/db/repos/gentoo/profiles/default/linux/amd64/23.0/desktop/plasma ├── package.accept_keywords │   ├── asdf-vm │   ├── gamemode │   ├── goverlay │   ├── mangohud │   ├── nordvpn │   └── steam ├── package.license │   ├── chrome │   ├── discord │   └── nordvpn ├── package.mask ├── package.use │   ├── 00video │   ├── goverlay │   ├── installkernel │   ├── steam │   ├── systemd-boot │   └── zz-autounmask ├── postsync.d │   └── 50-eix-postsync -> ../../../usr/bin/eix-postsync ├── profile │   └── package.use.force ├── repos.conf │   └── eselect-repo.conf └── savedconfig    └── sys-kernel        └── linux-firmware-20250808  17 directories, 30 files
I need the truth I need the truthu/PinkSlep•12 days agoI need the truthDiscussionI really wanna knowWhat makes you use Gentoo?How is it different from other distros?Why do some ppl talking like they found a treasure box when talking about Gentoo?Why I ask these questions, because if it's really AMAZINGNothing is stopping me from start learning it and using as my daily driverRight now just using Debian 13 + i3wm x11 works wellEdit**: thank you all of youI really think I get it now , I feel it ignite my "Techy soul" like when I use rooting and Custom ROM old phonesThe infinite potential!
[sway] A (really) minimal sway gruvbox rice [sway] A (really) minimal sway gruvbox riceu/MrKrot1999•2 mo. ago[sway] A (really) minimal sway gruvbox riceScreenshot[sway] A (really) minimal sway gruvbox ricer/unixporn•2 mo. ago[sway] A (really) minimal sway gruvbox rice36upvotes·7comments
Phew! Phew!u/unixbhaskar•2 mo. agoPhew!Screenshot
Why is e2fsprogs still part of the @system set? Why is e2fsprogs still part of the @system set?u/wiszonic•2 mo. agoWhy is e2fsprogs still part of the @system set?DiscussionThe current installation guide for AMD64 recommends the xfs filesystem atleast for root. Which is a great choice so I decided to use it too on my freshly installed Gentoo. However I'm curious why e2fsprogs is still part of the sytem-set. I personally don't use it. So I even compiled the kernel without any ext-support. I think having the e2fsprogs package still installed is kinda stupid. I would like to uninstall it but it isn't as easy as using emerge --deselect e2fsprogs or something similar like --depclean.Is anyone here bothered too? Did you tried to uninstall e2fsprogs and may managed to achieve it? I would like to know. Hopefully a Gentoo-Chad here can help me out abit :)
Rss feeds Rss feedsu/Master_Candle_3561•13 days agoRss feedsDiscussionHi! Can you share your gentoo rss feeds?
about -march about -marchu/FindingKitchen4734•13 days agoabout -marchDiscussionI have i5 11400(rocketlake) cpu if I set -march=rocketlake it would be fine? Or there is difference between native & rocketlake?
Can Gentoo achieve the same level of stability as Debian Stable and the same level of security as OpenBSD? Can Gentoo achieve the same level of stability as Debian Stable and the same level of security as OpenBSD?[deleted]•1 mo. agoCan Gentoo achieve the same level of stability as Debian Stable and the same level of security as OpenBSD?DiscussionHello once again! Recently, I made a post about Arch Linux and Gentoo Linux in this subreddit. Here is my previous post:https://www.reddit.com/r/Gentoo/comments/1qbsybo/comment/nziwjf7/I asked whether Gentoo is more stable and secure than Arch Linux, and the most common answer I received was that Gentoo can be as stable as I configure it to be, and the same applies to security.So my question is: if I use the right profiles, packages, and settings, can Gentoo reach the level of Debian Stable?And what about OpenBSD? Can Gentoo be as secure as OpenBSD, which is famous for its strong focus on security?Thank you!
portage ssd portage ssdu/Linux-Berger•13 days agoportage ssdSupportI am currently building a new pc and I decided to run it on gentoo.I am known as "the SSD murderer", because that's what I do. I do a lot of "oldschool devops", meaning building my own pipelines with docker and vms constantly. Developing, testing, improving, failing, improving again. Virtualizing a lot of infrastructure, simulating outages and bugs. Building a lot of dev environments, cloud environments, etc. Developing and building stress tests. Developing and running integration tests. In short: I am constantly writing huge amounts of data in usually small files and SSDs don't like that. I murder them on a regular basis.So in the past I usually had a "sacrificial SSD" for all my heavy write intensive stuff. It needed to be quick and big, but it wasn't a problem if it failed - I could just replace it and rebuild everything and all the "valuable data" was on the "system SSD".Now, I haven't been on gentoo for about 20 years and a lot has changed. Back in the day there were no SSDs.I am wondering if it would be the smart choice to put portage on the sacrificial ssd as well, because I'm unsure what of it actually can be rebuilt on failure (and trust me, that failure will happen) and what not.Is it possible to just have the temporary/source files for building on that SSD and the integral part of it on the systems SSD?Are my concerns even sensible or am I just over exaggerating, because I have murdered so many SSDs in the past?Since I have a lot of RAM left over (30 GB at least) would it be sensible to have single emerges run in a ramdisk to extend my SSDs life a bit?Since this machine will come with a huge HDD raidz2 as well, how much would the performance suffer if use that instead of an extra SSD?I mean, I will try out all of that anyways, but I'm curious to hear your thoughts about it beforehand. Maybe some of my ideas are actually too stupid to even bother. Maybe others are a best practise and I just didn't get the memo. How do I set it up for performance that lasts the best?Thanks for your input.
First timer gentoo issues. First timer gentoo issues.u/Kyrbyn_YT•13 days agoFirst timer gentoo issues.SupportLong story short, after rm -rf’ing my void install and failing to recover any files, I’ve decided to install gentoo. All seems good however, for some reason my internet connection is really flaky (never happened on void), while installing post stage3, trying to emerge —sync (i need to install mirrorselect), it keeps getting stuck at random points. Also while downloading the stage3 file, the connection often dropped to zero download speed. What could be the issue?
Need some help here... Need some help here...u/firebird-X-phoenix•14 days agoNeed some help here...Support
Solved flair needed Solved flair neededu/Bubbly_Extreme4986•2 mo. agoSolved flair neededDiscussionJust a question to the mods.Almost every other subreddit for Linux has a solved flair in some form for support questions. This lets users know that the OPs issue is solved and they can go on.Without this you have to explicitly say as the OP in multiple places that it’s been solved.Why?
After Voidlinux... I finally made it to gentoo too. After Voidlinux... I finally made it to gentoo too.u/CynexV2•2 mo. agoAfter Voidlinux... I finally made it to gentoo too.Screenshot
What do i do help What do i do helpu/zTonin•15 days agoWhat do i do helpSupport
I am proud to say that I am proud to say thatu/Low_Ad_5090•12 days agoI am proud to say thatDiscussionhttps://github.com/Graght/quilat-overlay
If the Steam client were also available as a 64-bit application on Linux, would there be any reason to continue using multilib? If the Steam client were also available as a 64-bit application on Linux, would there be any reason to continue using multilib?u/Adorable_Dust4838•2 mo. agoIf the Steam client were also available as a 64-bit application on Linux, would there be any reason to continue using multilib?DiscussionI’m not sure which applications still require 32-bit dependencies. I’m running Gentoo with Hyprland and a very minimal setup, so I’m wondering whether I actually need 32-bit libraries at all.edit: thank you all very much for taking the time to answer my question
I think I'm in love with Gentoo.. XD I think I'm in love with Gentoo.. XDu/Delicious_Soup_4977•2 mo. agoI think I'm in love with Gentoo.. XDScreenshot
Can I run  Gentoo with Cosmic? Can I run  Gentoo with Cosmic?u/Proton-Lightin•14 days agoCan I run  Gentoo with Cosmic?DiscussionI'm curious if I can run cosmic with gentoo?  I'm want to be able to run my games, have media and code.  I'm currently on cachy is cosmic.
Use markdown instead of mediawiki syntax! Use markdown instead of mediawiki syntax!u/_meow11•14 days agoUse markdown instead of mediawiki syntax!DiscussionI see it very hard to edit a page because of the syntax of mediawiki. I would like if we switch to markdown. Converting all pages to markdown would make contributing and updating much easier.
How do I connect to WiFi? Reasonably urgent How do I connect to WiFi? Reasonably urgentu/Bubbly_Extreme4986•2 mo. agoHow do I connect to WiFi? Reasonably urgentSupport
Error during mesa update (25.2.7) Error during mesa update (25.2.7)u/Sbatushe•2 mo. agoError during mesa update (25.2.7)Support
how many understand Gentoo at this level? how many understand Gentoo at this level?u/Star_Skies•26 days agohow many understand Gentoo at this level?Discussionhttps://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic-t-1066980-start-0-postdays-0-postorder-asc-highlight-uprunning.htmlSaw this link on a help thread from a different area of the web and was intrigued. How many people understand Gentoo to the level that the beginner in this link was trying to understand it?I never really thought about it, but from that really in-depth forum thread, I can see how an Gentoo can be extremely difficult for beginners. The Handbook is seemingly nowhere near sufficient for beginners and "RTFM!!" absolutely does not work there. The questions being asked were good questions, but just too much for an ELI5 explanation.I'm quite amazed that they stuck with it and actually got Gentoo to run. Great persistence!
Hear me out. Chroot Devuan on Xephyr from Gentoo Hear me out. Chroot Devuan on Xephyr from Gentoou/Easy-Nothing-6735•22 days agoHear me out. Chroot Devuan on Xephyr from GentooDiscussion
[Hyprland] Gentoo AlephOS rice [Hyprland] Gentoo AlephOS riceu/Aleph_Kt•20 days ago[Hyprland] Gentoo AlephOS riceScreenshot[Hyprland] Gentoo AlephOS ricer/unixporn•20 days ago[Hyprland] Gentoo AlephOS rice33upvotes·5comments
Firefox esr wants to downgrade and require live version of rust? Firefox esr wants to downgrade and require live version of rust?u/Ok_Green5623•2 mo. agoFirefox esr wants to downgrade and require live version of rust?Support
Bluetooth is interfering with the network. Bluetooth is interfering with the network.u/theorphanxyz•15 days agoBluetooth is interfering with the network.SupportHello,I've been using Gentoo for 3 months and recently bought a new notebook (ThinkPad E15). I installed gentoo-kernel-bin, sof-firmware, linux-headers, bluez, etc.On the ThinkPad E15, when I download anything, I lose the Bluetooth sound.Any tip to fix this?
Gentoo on old hardware Gentoo on old hardwareu/NoBlacksmith5137•2 mo. agoGentoo on old hardwareScreenshot
Is it bad that I keep my secondary drive mounted at /hdd? Is it bad that I keep my secondary drive mounted at /hdd?u/GBember•2 mo. agoIs it bad that I keep my secondary drive mounted at /hdd?DiscussionHi! I got this extra drive quite a while ago for general stuff, downloads, torrents, backups and whatnot. At the time I wasn't sure where to mount it and I just made a /hdd directory and allowed my user to write to the new drive. Is this a bad practice?
do you guys compile every new version of sources when it appeared to emerge? do you guys compile every new version of sources when it appeared to emerge?u/OldPhotograph3382•1 mo. agodo you guys compile every new version of sources when it appeared to emerge?Discussion
My friend is trying to run kde plasma with x11 and they're getting this error My friend is trying to run kde plasma with x11 and they're getting this erroru/Character_Ad7539•16 days agoMy friend is trying to run kde plasma with x11 and they're getting this errorSupportx11-11bs/l1bdr:0 (x11-11bs/11bdrn-2.4.127:0/0: gemtoo, ebulld schedaled far merge) usE-"adeu -doc -test -tools -valgrin" AB 1_X06="(61) -32 (->32)" VIDED_CARDS-"andgpu (-exynos) (-freedreno) -Intel -mouveau (-onap) -radeon (-tegra) (-uc4) (-ulvante) -unwa re" conflicts vith bed1-lihe/1ibdra-2.4.121luldco, raris radeon] gerutred (medla-1ibs/mest-25.2.8:0/0::gontoo, Anstalled) USg-"X Pau" ABT X86-"(64) -32 (-x32)" CPU_PLAGS X86-"sse2" Lu,5L0."21 -10: -19 -20" VIDBO_CARDS- "radeonsi -asahi -d3d12 (-freedreno) -intel -lavanive (-1ina) -nouvcau -nvk -panfrost) -r300 -r606 Tadeon zink" Copengl) proprictary- codecs vulkan wayland zstd -debug -In-sensors -openc1 -test -urind -vaapi -valgrind -vd E >7d1-libe/1lbdm-2.1.03lglder-gade_sndean] regutred ky (x11-drivererxf86-video-at1-22.0,0:0%0:"gentoo, mstal led) UE-"alev" AB1_366-""61)"
Powering off randomly after suspend - Thinkpad X1 Carbon 10th gen Powering off randomly after suspend - Thinkpad X1 Carbon 10th genu/Automaticpotatoboy•17 days agoPowering off randomly after suspend - Thinkpad X1 Carbon 10th genSupportEDIT: Turns out it was a kernel issue. Compiled a different one and all is fine.EDIT 2: Hasn't been fixed. Still brokenWhenever I put my computer to sleep, after a few minutes it powers off completely in a non-graceful way. I can confirm this by checking my systemd journal where the latest log entry is:Jan 27 13:31:00 gentoo-X1 systemd-sleep[14644]: Performing sleep operation 'suspend'...I am using the default distribution kernel. If I wake my laptop up before it shuts off, no problems arise.CPU:12th Gen Intel(R) Core(TM) i5-1235U (12) @ 4.40 GHzRAM:16GBSwap Size:16GBAny ideas?
Took me a while Took me a whileu/BLACK__Y6K•2 mo. agoTook me a whileScreenshot
Steam on gentoo Steam on gentoou/Online_Matter•22 days agoSteam on gentooDiscussionGentoo has me alured. The idea of getting packages straight from its source code is very cool. Like a kid in a toy store, I'm checking out the packages for software I frequently use. One of those is steam. Thewiki pageseems to specify that certain kernel configs are prerequisite for using steam, is that something necessary to configure on my own or is it included in the default kernel? What about 32-bit dependencies, will those have to be configured and built?Unrelated to steam, What about systemd unit files and udev rules? Are they included by emerge or are those necessary to maintain as well?Finally how recently do the packages follow upstream versions compared to arch?
I stupidly deleted usr/x86_64-pc-linux-gnu and with crossdev now I’m screwed. I help please I stupidly deleted usr/x86_64-pc-linux-gnu and with crossdev now I’m screwed. I help pleaseu/ExcellentRuin8115•2 mo. agoI stupidly deleted usr/x86_64-pc-linux-gnu and with crossdev now I’m screwed. I help pleaseSupportSo as the title says I may be dumb. I was playing with crossdev to get a cross-compiler and I mistook that one for one of the ones I created.Now almost nothing. Please if anyone knows what to do to make it work again and also keep the things I got in my system (ofc if there isn’t a way out it’s okey I got most of the important things saved online)Thanks beforehand :Dif you need me to post anything related to logs let me know and I will more than happily share itEdit: Thanks everyone for the help. My system is already totally broken I tried to extract the stage3 file again and avoid changing the things that were working doing ”—exclude=“ don’t do it now everything is on red after rebooting I’m gonna have a fresh install.
Gentoo help (grub boot launcher) Gentoo help (grub boot launcher)u/Disastrous-Fly5402•17 days agoGentoo help (grub boot launcher)DiscussionSOLVEDNOTE:i posted this with a video originally but ended up realizing later thatr/gentoodoesn’t allow for videos and I can’t add them post edit here. I made a new post, with images. Please check it out here.https://www.reddit.com/r/Gentoo/s/1P9fje3zHBI’ve been trying to fully switch over to gentoo but have been encountering issues every step of the way. I’ve managed to fix all of them except for this one (video shows issue). There is no option to boot the actual gentoo system I have setup and this is an issue I can’t find out much about. All I have is an option to open uefi settings and nothing else. I’m assuming I incorrectly setup grub, and though I can get to what looks to be a terminal, I’m completely lost trying to figure out the commands and possible syntax’s and flags for them. I know that the actual system would work if I could have an option to boot it.Any sort of help would be appreciated, Thank you!
Mesa compilation error Mesa compilation erroru/Spracle•2 mo. agoMesa compilation errorSupportInstalling Gentoo on a new machine but I'm stuck trying to compiling mesa.Build loghttps://bpa.st/X5WQEmerge info about the packagehttps://bpa.st/3PZQPretend emerging the packagehttps://bpa.st/AMVQAny help would be greatly appreciated!
Can it be installed on everything? Can it be installed on everything?u/andris_the_explorer•2 mo. agoCan it be installed on everything?DiscussionHello everyone! I'm new to Linux, so far I've been running Debian for a month now. Although I really like it I'm still curious about other distros. Recently Gentoo has got my attention, I know its one of the hardest to install, but not only this fact doesnt stop my curiousity, but also multiplies it.I've looked around this sub and have notice that people run Gentoo not only from desktop and laptops, but from thing like portable connsoles, which I find insane.So my question is: Can Gentoo be run from anything? What does it take to achieve such result?
Help switching from OpenRC to systemd Help switching from OpenRC to systemdu/pointer-ception•17 days agoHelp switching from OpenRC to systemdSupportHello,I use Gentoo on my desktop system and it's been a great experience so far. However, I've been sticking with Arch on my laptop because I don't have the time to compile a whole system on it (it isn't very fast). As a result it's been slightly confusing to use both openrc and systemd on different devices, and I think I just want to switch my desktop's gentoo install to systemd. I switched from profile default/linux/amd64/23.0/desktop/plasma to default/linux/amd64/23.0/desktop/plasma/systemd and removed -systemd from my use flags but I am getting so many strange emerge errors with things trying to pull in systemd-utils and packages that still have -systemd set somehow. I have ZFS snapshots from before starting this process so I can always revert if I blow everything up.What I'm asking is, should I just reinstall entirely, or is there some proper way to do such a change? I've searched a lot but I can't find any guides on switching init systems like this.Sorry if I sound stupid or I'm missing something obvious. I'm somewhat new to gentoo.Any help is greatly appreciated!
Cannot install grub please help Urgent Cannot install grub please help Urgentu/Bubbly_Extreme4986•2 mo. agoCannot install grub please help UrgentSupport(chroot) mint ~ # grub-install --target=i386-pc /dev/nvme0n1grub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfggrub-install: error: /usr/lib/grub/i386-pc/modinfo.sh doesn't exist. Please specify --target or --directory.Generating grub configuration file ...Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-6.12.58-gentoo-distFound initrd image: /boot/intel-uc.img /boot/amd-uc.img /boot/initramfs-6.12.58-gentoo-dist.imgFound linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-6.12.58-gentoo-dist.oldFound initrd image: /boot/intel-uc.img /boot/amd-uc.img /boot/initramfs-6.12.58-gentoo-dist.img.oldWarning: os-prober will not be executed to detect other bootable partitions.Systems on them will not be added to the GRUB boot configuration.Check GRUB_DISABLE_OS_PROBER documentation entry.Adding boot menu entry for UEFI Firmware Settings ...done(chroot) mint ~ # lsblk -fNAME FSTYPE FSVER LABEL                           UUID                                 FSAVAIL FSUSE% MOUNTPOINTSloop0squash 4.0sda  iso966 Jolie Linux Mint 22.2 Cinnamon 64-bit 2025-08-28-08-52-38-00├─sda1│    iso966 Jolie Linux Mint 22.2 Cinnamon 64-bit 2025-08-28-08-52-38-00├─sda2│    vfat   FAT12                                 68B0-18D6└─sda3ext4   1.0   writable                        50d0e29a-905d-473c-92a5-1f608a554e4anvme0n1│├─nvme0n1p1│    vfat   FAT16                                 70A0-F5F5├─nvme0n1p2│    ext4   1.0                                   90f451eb-dd0a-49c1-87dc-2aa2ef1556ed  748.6M    12% /boot│                                                                                                     /boot│                                                                                                     /boot│                                                                                                     /boot├─nvme0n1p3│    swap   1                                     3e104ca7-7213-4f6f-b74e-06027e43a8bd                [SWAP]└─nvme0n1p4ext4   1.0                                   812ad858-30bf-42ae-9488-862db0a2770d  873.5G     1% /(chroot) mint ~ #My system is a bios  Host: HP OmniBook 7 Laptop 16-ay0xxxPlease Help me I’m stuck with a live system of Mint and I want to try Gentoo for its Portage.USE="modules-sign dist-kernel pc -efi"GRUB_PLATFORMS="efi-64 -coreboot -efi-32 -emu -ieee1275 (-loongson) -multiboot -pc -qemu (-qemu-mips) -uboot -xen -xen-32 -xen-pvh"(chroot) mint ~ #SOLVED
should i recompile @world after chaning cflags like from -O2 to -O3? should i recompile @world after chaning cflags like from -O2 to -O3?u/FindingKitchen4734•13 days agoshould i recompile @world after chaning cflags like from -O2 to -O3?Discussion
Been running Gentoo for a couple weeks without issues so thought Id share! Even got gaming working! Been running Gentoo for a couple weeks without issues so thought Id share! Even got gaming working!u/Various_Tomatillo327•2 mo. agoBeen running Gentoo for a couple weeks without issues so thought Id share! Even got gaming working!Screenshot
Hibernation and hugepages. Hibernation and hugepages.u/Primary_Concept_3147•2 mo. agoHibernation and hugepages.SupportHello, since I start allocating huge pages in my system, it has become impossible to hibernate; previously, the system was able to do so.In the logs it throws an error  that was impossible to allocate enought memory, despite I use a 48GB swap partition for a 32GB  ram system. Futhermore, the system was  using none of the swap and less  than 50% of RAM.Two solve that I implement the next elogind hibernation hook; this deallocates  the number  of hugepages before hibernating and reallocate them  at resuming the system:#!/bin/bash  # Get current number of pages mhugepages=$(cat /sys/kernel/mm/hugepages/hugepages-2048kB/nr_hugepages) ghugepages=$(cat /sys/kernel/mm/hugepages/hugepages-1048576kB/nr_hugepages)  case $1/$2 in   pre/hibernate|pre/hybrid-sleep) # save the variables to memory echo $mhugepages > /tmp/mhugepages echo $ghugepages > /tmp/ghugepages  # unloads the current number of hugepages echo 0 > /sys/kernel/mm/hugepages/hugepages-1048576kB/nr_hugepages echo 0 > /sys/kernel/mm/hugepages/hugepages-2048kB/nr_hugepages echo 0 ;;   post/hibernate|post/hybrid-sleep) #Retrive the number of pages mhugepages=$(cat /tmp/mhugepages) ghugepages=$(cat /tmp/ghugepages)  rm /tmp/mhugepages rm /tmp/ghugepages  # Realocates the number of pages echo $ghugepages > /sys/kernel/mm/hugepages/hugepages-1048576kB/nr_hugepages echo $mhugepages > /sys/kernel/mm/hugepages/hugepages-2048kB/nr_hugepages  ;; esacMy question is:If deallocating the number of huge pages when hibernating and then reallocating them can cause memory corruption or problems in the applications that are using them?
Splurged a little on my desktop... Splurged a little on my desktop...u/Aggressive-Pen-9755•20 days agoSplurged a little on my desktop...Screenshot... just a little...
best distro best distrou/loshara33333•2 mo. agobest distroScreenshot
Another very silly machine Another very silly machineu/cosinuodal_puddle•2 mo. agoAnother very silly machineScreenshot
Why hyprland no update Why hyprland no updateu/Inevitable_Head_2741•17 days agoWhy hyprland no updateSupportHyprland already on 0.53.3 but gentoo only has 0.51.1. Why bruh
Mullvad VPN what kernel setting is it? Mullvad VPN what kernel setting is it?u/Bubbly_Extreme4986•22 days agoMullvad VPN what kernel setting is it?Support
First Time Install - grub screen after reboot (any common mistakes?) First Time Install - grub screen after reboot (any common mistakes?)u/SleepyGuyy•2 mo. agoFirst Time Install - grub screen after reboot (any common mistakes?)SupportAfter the last step on this page, to reboot the system, I am met with the Grub menu instead of booting my system.https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Handbook:AMD64/Installation/Bootloader#Rebooting_the_systemI am using the MBR and BIOS install methods, since this is an old laptop.The install process was lengthy for me, and I don't think I can walk through it and pinpoint the missing step.I was wondering are there any classic and common mistakes new people make at this stage of the install, that causes this?The Handbook is very good about explaining each section, and I will dive back into the install process and re-read when I get the time. There were sections I skipped because they were irrelevant to my choices, but I may have skipped past a relevant section adjacent to a skippable section. I was using Links in the minimal install media.But if there's any quick win that'd be a relief
Does tlmgr not work with app-text/texlive? Does tlmgr not work with app-text/texlive?u/palapapa0201•2 mo. agoDoes tlmgr not work with app-text/texlive?SupportWhen I runtlmgr init-usertree, I get the error:TLPDB: 00texlive.installation not found, cannot read option platform. TLPDB: 00texlive.installation not found, cannot read option location. tlmgr: No installation source found: neither in texlive.tlpdb nor on command line. tlmgr: Please specify one! at /usr/bin/tlmgr line 7175.Does tlmgr only work with the manually installed TeX Live and not the one from Portage? If so, why does it gets installed?
Hyprland, VLC is all fuzzy Hyprland, VLC is all fuzzyu/Bubbly_Extreme4986•26 days agoHyprland, VLC is all fuzzySupport
grub-btrfs can't boot into snapshots grub-btrfs can't boot into snapshotsu/GBember•2 mo. agogrub-btrfs can't boot into snapshotsSupportHi! I've been trying to set up this for a few hours now, I moved from a no bootloader setup to grub to accommodate the snapper snapshots better. The only boot parameter I added manually to the grub config is something related to amd pstate and the main system boots fine. Whenever I try to boot a snapshot I'm met with the list of supported file systems followed by 'Unknown parameter "defaults"'. If i manually delete that from the grub edit screen  the kernel panics the same way, but instead of defaults it's 'noatime'. I have no idea how to move forward as I barely could find any info related to grub btrfsEDIT: I forgot to mention, my kernel is a monolithic binary, no modules or anything and yes, BTRFS support is there and CMDLINE is disabled, no boot parameter override weirdnessAlso, all of those parameters I mentioned are in 'rootflags', as for the standar boot, this parameter just points to the correct subvolume
Higher disk usage on a fresh install Higher disk usage on a fresh installu/Ok_Tiger_27960•2 mo. agoHigher disk usage on a fresh installSupportHello all. I’ve recently installed Gentoo with a fairly threadbare setup of Plasma, and a few programs. My install is taking up about40Gb20Gb. I have 1TB disk in my laptop, so I’m not really worried about running out of storage soon, but I’d like to get ahead of it. I’ve runeclean —distfilesbut there’s only a small amount of disk space freed. Is this expected? I’ve been a long time Fedora user, and a fresh install of Fedora KDE doesn’t take this much space.Unrelated aside, I really have to praise Gentoo. I’ve been distro hopping, and I’m surprised just how damn fast it is, compared to CachyOS. I’m also very happy that everything just works. I had the impression that Gentoo was a more difficult Arch, but it’s so much more stable.
None of the gnustep apps I try seem to work. None of the gnustep apps I try seem to work.u/Blackraven2007•18 days agoNone of the gnustep apps I try seem to work.SupportI've tried to installGMines,Cynthiune, andTextEditpackages, but they all fail with the same error message:GMines: /var/tmp/portage/gnustep-base/libobjc2-2.3/work/libobjc2-2.3/protocol.h:85: struct objc_protocol_method_description *protocol_method_at_index(struct objc_protocol_method_description_list *, int): Assertion `l->size >= sizeof(struct objc_protocol_method_description)' failed. Aborted                    (core dumped) GMinesI'm not really sure what to do about this. This seems to happen with every package that I've tried to install from the gnustep-apps category. I should note that I did have to rebuild GCC with the "objc" use flag to get those packages to build at all.
As long as the system is NOT frozen and allows me to work on other important stuff ....I am okay to spend that much time ...obviously putting it on the back burner :)   I can assure you Gentoo is FUN! 👍😜 As long as the system is NOT frozen and allows me to work on other important stuff ....I am okay to spend that much time ...obviously putting it on the back burner :)   I can assure you Gentoo is FUN! 👍😜u/unixbhaskar•19 days agoAs long as the system is NOT frozen and allows me to work on other important stuff ....I am okay to spend that much time ...obviously putting it on the back burner :)   I can assure you Gentoo is FUN! 👍😜Screenshot
any tips to improve my make.conf? any tips to improve my make.conf?u/loshara33333•2 mo. agoany tips to improve my make.conf?Support
Looking to swap OS's Looking to swap OS'su/Less_Hedgehog_7171•2 mo. agoLooking to swap OS'sSupportI am currently on Bazzite, it is not good to put it lightly. I've got a few concerns about Gentoo though.How is it for gaming, both modern games and old games. (ie. is steams proton good, if not what is for non native games)How does it perform? My only OS's have been Bazzite (3 months) and Windows 10. I had minimal issues with Windows, but Bazzite was a can of worms.What are any known issues?How difficult is it to install? What comes preinstalled etc.How long is the install, I'm planning on upgrading my graphics card and adding a second SSD around the same time and want to do everything at once.What is the common way for people to download things on it? I used all 4 ways you can download something while on Bazzite, mainly the official websites or steam, so how does Arch look for downloading.How often is terminal used? not really a deciding factor, but something I'd like to know before going in.What are the updates like? Stability, Frequency, Ease, and Informing when one is ready.And finally, one that's incredibly easy to answer. Can i just use the same USB to install Gentoo? I'd like to save money.Edit to add: My main issue with Bazzite was horrible crashes often requiring restart. Is this an issue on Gentoo? And do I get to choose my GPU drivers/Do they auto update? (AMD)
How to pick and use special characters on Linux How to pick and use special characters on Linuxu/PartMysterious4688•18 days agoHow to pick and use special characters on LinuxDiscussionI want to pick and use special characters in Linux (not emojis), like the icons in Nerd Fonts—for example, the tiny Gentoo and Arch Linux logos.
Vendor hardware control via I2C and OpenRC Vendor hardware control via I2C and OpenRCu/logicmagixtide42•2 mo. agoVendor hardware control via I2C and OpenRCDiscussionHi. I have a 16G Pi5 Gentoo box in a pironman5 case with 990 pro. I was very annoyed that I was unable to use some of the pironman5 hardware without the vendor software. I have written scripts and OpenRC services for leds, fan control, and oled on the pironman5 over I2C. I can push it to my repo if there is any interest in this at all. It should potentially work with Alpine or other distros as well.
Failed EFI stub install Failed EFI stub installu/kevinschultze1•18 days agoFailed EFI stub installSupport
Not seeing my monitor with xrandr on my laptop Not seeing my monitor with xrandr on my laptopu/Silakfighter•2 mo. agoNot seeing my monitor with xrandr on my laptopSupportI wanted to use a monitor with my gentoo laptop, but for some reason its not connected in xrandr but the cable is connected and is working with windows for example. I installed (i think) all needed drivers, but it just doesn’t want to work. Would appreciate any kind of help. :)
Flatpak not working alongside Apparmor Flatpak not working alongside Apparmoru/GBember•2 mo. agoFlatpak not working alongside ApparmorSupportHi! I just installed both this things to try them out (Apparmor seems to be a core component of the Flatpak security model, even the wiki ) but I can't get them to work together at all! aa-status only show 3 processes working under app armor, avahi-daemon twice and syslogd and if I cat the process the same way it returns syslogd (enforce), an actual proper reply. Anyone know how this works? Sorry if I misunderstood something
KDE what in the bloat? KDE what in the bloat?u/Bubbly_Extreme4986•27 days agoKDE what in the bloat?DiscussionI usually use nnn as my file manager, you know TUI with Vim keys. However I decided to install KDE-apps/dolphin too for convenience.My mistake.For some reason that escapes me Portage pulled in 80 freaking packages, even the KDE wallet software, for a file manager!I’ve heard KDE is monolithic but holy moly what in the bloat.USE flags are no help either. Guess I should look somewhere else for a gui file manager.
Nix on gentoo Nix on gentoou/zarMarco•2 mo. agoNix on gentooDiscussionHi guys, I'm thinking of installing nix on my system to use instead of flatpak, so I can get more familiar with it (among other things, I also use nixos a bit, and it has some interesting ideas). Has anyone tried it on Gentoo? I use systemd for init.
XServer Compatibility with NVIDIA. XServer Compatibility with NVIDIA.u/Diligent-Side-9663•2 mo. agoXServer Compatibility with NVIDIA.SupportI’ve done all the nessacary steps to have XORG work with NVIDIA, but it seems I3 doesn’t, whenever I use startx, it loads but not into I3 but just freezes and won’t open the DE. I’m not sure how to fix this problem as I’ve followed the nessacary steps, installed the right drivers and kernel modules but it just won’t allow me to get into the I3 environment.
Grub roadblock Grub roadblocku/Plenty-Thanks7600•19 days agoGrub roadblockSupport
Lunar Client ebuild Lunar Client ebuildu/sFannyosx•19 days agoLunar Client ebuildDevelopmentI ended up doing an ebuild of Lunar for gentoo because I had some problems with the Flatpak version. got help from Genspark to fix some issues in the src_install file, but everything is working and tested.EAPI=8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DESCRIPTION="Lunar Client"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HOMEPAGE="https://www.lunarclient.com/"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SRC_URI="https://launcherupdates.lunarclientcdn.com/Lunar%20Client-${PV}-ow.AppImage -> ${P}.AppImage"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LICENSE="Lunar-Client-EULA"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SLOT="0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KEYWORDS="~amd64"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S="${WORKDIR}"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RDEPEND="                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     >=x11-libs/gtk+-2.24.32-r1[X(+)]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          app-crypt/libsecret                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       dev-libs/nss                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              dev-libs/libbsd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           || ( dev-libs/libffi-compat:7 dev-libs/libffi:0/7 )                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       dev-libs/libpcre                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          media-libs/alsa-lib                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       media-libs/openal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         net-libs/gnutls[idn]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      net-print/cups                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            sys-apps/dbus                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             virtual/jre:1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           virtual/opengl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            x11-apps/xrandr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           x11-libs/libXScrnSaver                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    x11-libs/libXcomposite                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    x11-libs/libXcursor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       x11-libs/libXdamage                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       x11-libs/libXext                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          x11-libs/libXfixes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        x11-libs/libXi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            x11-libs/libXrender                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       x11-libs/libXtst                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          x11-libs/xcb-util                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   src_unpack() {                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                cp "${DISTDIR}/${P}.AppImage" "${S}/"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     chmod +x "${S}/${P}.AppImage"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       "${S}/${P}.AppImage" --appimage-extract                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               }                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             src_install() {                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               insinto /opt/${PN}                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        doins -r squashfs-root/*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            fperms +x /opt/${PN}/AppRun                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               fperms +x /opt/${PN}/lunarclient                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          fperms +x /opt/${PN}/chrome_crashpad_handler                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              fperms +x /opt/${PN}/chrome-sandbox                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 dosym /opt/${PN}/AppRun /usr/bin/${PN}                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              sed -i "s|Exec=.*|Exec=${PN}|" "${S}/squashfs-root/lunarclient.desktop"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             insinto /usr/share/applications                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     doins "${S}/squashfs-root/lunarclient.desktop"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            insinto /usr/share/icons/hicolor/1024x1024/apps                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           doins "${S}/squashfs-root/usr/share/icons/hicolor/1024x1024/apps/lunarclient.png"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     }                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   pkg_postinst() {                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              xdg_desktop_database_update                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               xdg_icon_cache_update                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               elog "Done..."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            elog "Execute: ${PN}"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 }
Just updated grub and now it looks like that Just updated grub and now it looks like thatu/ArtemOver•2 mo. agoJust updated grub and now it looks like thatNews
How to get the gentoo logo or linux penguins at the boot screen How to get the gentoo logo or linux penguins at the boot screenu/purelyannoying•17 days agoHow to get the gentoo logo or linux penguins at the boot screenSupportHow do I get the Linux penguins to show at boot?Hey everyone, I just installed Gentoo (btw), and I want to get those Tux penguins showing up during boot as I've seen in other people's setups.I enabled the boot logo in my kernel config:Device Drivers --->   Graphics support --->     [*] Bootup logo --->       [*] Standard 224-color Linux logoI also have framebuffer console support enabled. I compiled and installed the kernel, updated GRUB, and rebooted.But I don't see any penguins! My system boots straight to the login screen.I checkeddmesg | grep logo,zcat /proc/config.gz | grep LOGOAnd it showsCONFIG_LOGO_LINUX_CLUT224=y, so it should be enabled.I'm using an AMD GPU and runningsys-kernel/gentoo-sources(not the precompiled dist kernel).Am I missing something? Do I need to configure GRUB differently or is my GPU driver loading too fast and covering the penguins?Any help would be appreciated! How do I get the Linux penguins to show at boot?Hey everyone, I just installed Gentoo (btw,) and I want to get those Tux penguins showing up during boot as I've seen in other people's setups.I enabled the boot logo in my kernel config:Device Drivers --->Graphics support --->[*] Bootup logo --->[*] Standard 224-color Linux logoI also have framebuffer console support enabled. I compiled and installed the kernel, updated GRUB, and rebooted.But I don't see any penguins! My system boots straight to the login screen.I checked dmesg | grep logo and zcat /proc/config.gz | grep LOGO, and it shows CONFIG_LOGO_LINUX_CLUT224=y, so it should be enabled.I'm using an AMD GPU and running sys-kernel/gentoo-sources (not the precompiled dist kernel).Am I missing something? Do I need to configure GRUB differently, or is my GPU driver loading too fast and covering the penguins?Any help would be appreciated!
After countless hours, my runit Gentoo setup After countless hours, my runit Gentoo setupu/Sbatushe•2 mo. agoAfter countless hours, my runit Gentoo setupScreenshot
Gentoo Linux on AMD ASUS Zephyrus G16 32 GB DDR5, RTX Nvidia 4070, 2 TB. dual boot Gentoo Linux on AMD ASUS Zephyrus G16 32 GB DDR5, RTX Nvidia 4070, 2 TB. dual bootu/dankweed•2 mo. agoGentoo Linux on AMD ASUS Zephyrus G16 32 GB DDR5, RTX Nvidia 4070, 2 TB. dual bootNews
Zephyrus G16 with AMD and RTX Nvidia 4070. 32 GB RAM and 2 TB Zephyrus G16 with AMD and RTX Nvidia 4070. 32 GB RAM and 2 TBu/dankweed•2 mo. agoZephyrus G16 with AMD and RTX Nvidia 4070. 32 GB RAM and 2 TBNews
Gentoo + hyprland = perfection Gentoo + hyprland = perfectionu/sFannyosx•2 mo. agoGentoo + hyprland = perfectionScreenshot
Hyprland doesnt start Hyprland doesnt startu/pingu-O-o•2 mo. agoHyprland doesnt startSupportустановила генту, драйвера для для видеокарты(rtx3060) и скачала дисплейный менеджер lightdm. при включении компа, lightdm нормально запускается, я ввожу пароль и у меня темнеет экран на несколько секунд и обратно кидает меня в дисплейный менеджер. что это может быть и как это исправить?
Gentoo mindset? Gentoo mindset?u/Jtekk-•2 mo. agoGentoo mindset?DiscussionHello my Gentoo friends.I'm currently running NixOS as my daily driver but use Fedora in the corporate world.  I'm currently doing a "distrohop" of sorts were I'm learning other distros on the side and I'm looking to play with gentoo as my next side-distro.Gentoo is fundementally different than nearly every distro I've ever touched.  So, with that said, specially for anyone who has gone from another distro to Gentoo, what are some of the thinks I should prepare myself to think and approach differently?Let me use void as an example: I setup void recently and I had to learn the difference between runit and systemd.  To add, my main mental shift was "ensure you've linked the service to /var/service/" to enable the service.Thank you in advance to the fastest penguins!
Cosmic on gentoo Cosmic on gentoou/real_sTaGEE•20 days agoCosmic on gentooDiscussionIm planning to reinstall gentoo in 5 days because other distros don't interest me as much as gentoo did. But I always used kde for it's stability and ease to set up. Lastly I tried Cosmic on cachyos and very liked it, but it had issues with game not launching full screen, had sound issues where whenever I changed sound it was stopping working whatsoever etc so I had to switch to kde again. How does Cosmic work on gentoo and is it worth using there? Asking because I want to use it as my daily driver
Compiling time Compiling timeu/AllgamCapinho•21 days agoCompiling timeSupportHi, I'm considering to switch to gentoo, but the only obstacule is the long time to compile everything, but it's really true or don't take THAT time to compilate? Binhost sounds good but it's already compiled packages, not different of any distro. What do you guys think?
Is this possible? Is this possible?u/mrshayan•2 mo. agoIs this possible?DiscussionSince the Gentoo LiveGUI uses KDE Plasma, could I just rsync the entire / directory to a partition and then install GRUB? That might be the quickest installation method, don’t you think?"
Ebuild for Noctalia (quickshell) Ebuild for Noctalia (quickshell)u/CheCheDaWaff•2 mo. agoEbuild for Noctalia (quickshell)StoryCouldn't find an ebuild anywhere forNoctalia(which is a set of config files for quickshell) so I ended up making one myself. I'm not at all confident with writing ebuilds so don't think it's appropriate to share mine more formally, but thought I'd leave a copy here in case it helps anyone :)EAPI=8  DESCRIPTION="Noctalia Configuration for Quickshell" HOMEPAGE="https://github.com/noctalia-dev/noctalia-shell" SRC_URI="https://github.com/noctalia-dev/noctalia-shell/releases/latest/download/noctalia-latest.tar.gz"  LICENSE="MIT" SLOT="0" KEYWORDS="~amd64 ~x86" IUSE="cliphist cava wlsunset xdg-desktop-portal evolution-data-server polkit-kde-agent" #matugen-git  RDEPEND="     gui-apps/quickshell     media-video/gpu-screen-recorder     app-misc/brightnessctl "  # Optional dependencies RDEPEND="${RDEPEND} 	cliphist? ( app-misc/cliphist ) 	cava? ( media-sound/cava ) 	wlsunset? ( gui-apps/wlsunset ) 	xdg-desktop-portal? ( sys-apps/xdg-desktop-portal ) 	evolution-data-server? ( gnome-extra/evolution-data-server ) 	polkit-kde-agent? ( kde-plasma/polkit-kde-agent ) " 	#matugen-git? ( matugen-git )  S="${WORKDIR}/noctalia-release"  src_unpack() {     default_src_unpack }  src_install() {     # Create the configuration directory     dodir "/etc/xdg/quickshell/noctalia-shell"      # Install the configuration files     cp -r "${S}"/* "${ED}/etc/xdg/quickshell/noctalia-shell/" }  # Metadata for installation pkg_postinst() {     elog "Noctalia has been installed. Configuration files are located in:"     elog "/etc/xdg/quickshell/noctalia" }It's working on my machine anyway!
How To Get Packet Tracer 8.2.2 working on gentoo based systems How To Get Packet Tracer 8.2.2 working on gentoo based systemsu/prettyoddoz•21 days agoHow To Get Packet Tracer 8.2.2 working on gentoo based systemsDevelopmentsudo emerge -q app-eselect/eselect-repository wgetsudo eselect repository enable gurusudo emerge --syncwgethttps://archive.org/download/cpt822/CiscoPacketTracer822_amd64_signed.debsudo mv CiscoPacketTracer822_amd64_signed.deb /var/cache/distfiles/Packet_Tracer822_amd64_signed.debsudo mkdir /etc/portage/package.license/echo "gui-apps/packettracer ~amd64" | sudo tee -a /etc/portage/package.accept_keywords/packettracerecho "gui-apps/packettracer Cisco" | sudo tee /etc/portage/package.license/packettracersudo emerge -q gui-apps/packettracer dev-qt/qtnetworkauth dev-libs/libxml2-compatexport LD_LIBRARY_PATH="/opt/pt/bin:/usr/lib:${LD_LIBRARY_PATH}"sudo ln -s /opt/pt/packettracer /usr/local/bin/
Why would someone need to chroot into Steam in gentoo? Why would someone need to chroot into Steam in gentoo?u/__NekoNeko__•14 days agoWhy would someone need to chroot into Steam in gentoo?DiscussionIn the Steam page on the Gentoo Wiki, they give instructions to how to install Steam via chroot, and I was wondering, why would that be necessary? I know that if I have to ask this, I probably am not the target audience for doing chroot steam, but I am genuinely curious about why that would be necessary for some people
Is this a package because I can’t find it. Is this a package because I can’t find it.u/Bubbly_Extreme4986•27 days agoIs this a package because I can’t find it.Support
Any good Youtube guides for emerge? Any good Youtube guides for emerge?u/personaxego•22 days agoAny good Youtube guides for emerge?SupportI just installed Gentoo as my first Linux distro like a boss, and I'm struggling to emerge quickshell. I don't understand what is going wrong. I want to figure it out for myself. I've tried for days to figure it out to no success.I've looked at the gentoo wiki, and I know what the error is (I think), but none of the proposed solutions have worked. I don't know if I messed up the install, if this is a quirk of a hardened profile, of no-multilib, or if I literally made a typo somewhere.I retain info better through audio, which is why I'm asking for help from a Youtube video. Maybe there's information I've glossed over on the wiki. FTR I've also looked at the man page.--I want to resist asking for a direct solution to the problem so I actually have to learn, but basically qtbase is a dependency for quickshell, and it has a required use flag for opengl if wayland's use flag is enabled. I tried both enabling opengl globally and for qtbasse specifically via /etc/portage/package.use/qtbase, but nothingI've tried other things too that didn't work, but I'll just let you guys suggest them rather than list them all. I think for some reason emerge isn't seeing my use flags, but I'm not even confident about thatEDIT: Emerge is 100% seeing my use flags *shrug*EDIT2: To be more specific, the "error" says:These are the packages that would be merged, in order:  Calculating dependencies  ... done! Dependency resolution took 0.58 s (backtrack: 0/20).  !!! The ebuild selected to satisfy "dev-qt/qtbase:6=[dbus]" has unmet requirements. - dev-qt/qtbase-6.10.1::gentoo USE="concurrent dbus gui libinput network nls sql sqlite ssl udev wayland widgets xml (zstd) -X -accessibility -brotli -cups -custom-cflags -eglfs -evdev -gles2-only -gssapi -gtk -icu -journald -libproxy -mysql -oci8 -odbc -opengl -postgres -renderdoc -sctp -syslog -test -tslib -vulkan"    The following REQUIRED_USE flag constraints are unsatisfied:     wayland? ( opengl )    The above constraints are a subset of the following complete expression:     at-most-one-of ( journald syslog ) X? ( gui ) accessibility? ( gui ) eglfs? ( gui ) evdev? ( gui ) gles2-only? ( gui ) libinput? ( gui ) opengl? ( gui ) renderdoc? ( gui ) tslib? ( gui ) vulkan? ( gui ) wayland? ( gui ) widgets? ( gui ) brotli? ( network ) gssapi? ( network ) libproxy? ( network ) sctp? ( network ) mysql? ( sql ) oci8? ( sql ) odbc? ( sql ) postgres? ( sql ) sqlite? ( sql ) cups? ( gui widgets ) gtk? ( gui widgets ) accessibility? ( dbus ) eglfs? ( opengl ) gles2-only? ( opengl ) gui? ( any-of ( X eglfs wayland ) ) libinput? ( udev ) sql? ( any-of ( mysql oci8 odbc postgres sqlite ) ) test? ( icu sql? ( sqlite ) ) wayland? ( opengl )  (dependency required by "gui-apps/quickshell-0.2.1::guru" [ebuild]) (dependency required by "quickshell" [argument])   * IMPORTANT: 24 news items need reading for repository 'gentoo'.  * Use eselect news read to view new items.I checked /ect/portage/package.use/zz-autounmask, and it has a required unuse promt for qt base so maybe it's something wrong with dispatch-conf instead? Maybe it's not seeing my written unmask? I don't know
Do I need a fresh install? Or is there a solution? Do I need a fresh install? Or is there a solution?u/Diligent-Side-9663•2 mo. agoDo I need a fresh install? Or is there a solution?Support
Gentoo+kde first successful Gentoo install finally got it working!! hope this looks good Gentoo+kde first successful Gentoo install finally got it working!! hope this looks goodu/No-Bedroom-7821•2 mo. agoGentoo+kde first successful Gentoo install finally got it working!! hope this looks goodScreenshot
I love Gentoo so much :3 I love Gentoo so much :3u/AC11DR41N•2 mo. agoI love Gentoo so much :3Screenshot
Gentoo on my Thinkpad X1C Gen 9 Gentoo on my Thinkpad X1C Gen 9u/scribiesnow•2 mo. agoGentoo on my Thinkpad X1C Gen 9Story
FINNALLY INSTALLED THE G.O.O.T GENTOO FINNALLY INSTALLED THE G.O.O.T GENTOOu/firebird-X-phoenix•2 mo. agoFINNALLY INSTALLED THE G.O.O.T GENTOOScreenshot
Definitely enjoying gentoo Definitely enjoying gentoou/Forward_Actuator_592•2 mo. agoDefinitely enjoying gentooStory
My 10 day review of Gentoo My 10 day review of Gentoou/lord_mythus•2 mo. agoMy 10 day review of GentooDiscussionHello,So roughly 10 days ago I finally succeeded on installing Gentoo. It's been the only operating system on my desktop. I thought I'd share my thoughts of the system thus far.The pros: My system feels fast. I don't know if it's actually faster or if this is placebo effect taking place, but yeah.I've noticed the system using less resources over all when running. While I don't have exact numbers, I'm using at least 10% less on average CPU. Memory use is nearly the same but I have yet to go into swap memory, something I always had to clear when running other distros. This could be from the fact that I've compiled most of my software instead of using bin sources. I did however use bins on some software, namely Firefox. But my kde plasma is fully compiled.I feel like I've learned a lot more about my system and Linux then I did when using arch. Especially when problem solving. Granted some things were Gentoo specific but other things like getting my printer to work would work with any distro. It's very rewarding solving these things and learning from them, more so than having things just magically work. Hits all the right dopamine receptors lol and gives a good sense of accomplishment.My system feels like it is truly my own. I built that. I compiled that. I set those flags. Know what I mean?The cons: Overlays. While they are good in theory, finding the right overlay is not so fun. Once I found an overlay for a game I wanted to try (vintage story), and got through the masking only to find that the package itself is missing....Unmasking. I've basically got the hang of it, I just wish it was more clear about why something is masked. I also wish emerge had it more built in. For example, it could come up with "package foo is masked due to being in testing branch. Do you want to unmask it?" Instead it says masked for keyword amd64, which I think means it's in testing branch. Then I have to rerun it with the magic unmasking commands, review and deal with config files, then rerun the command again. I mean I get it it's just... yeah.Neutral thoughts: Compiling doesn't take as long as I thought it would. Many packages compile rather quickly. Granted it isn't as fast as pacman, but I've compiled packages that built faster than they installed on opensuse lol, and some compile a lot faster than they built from AUR. This might be because my system can safely and easily run with jobs set to 24. I might be able to go even higher, but I would risk breakage. Still, not bad. So far system updates have been under 4 hours as well.I've only installed 2 packages from flathub thus far, that being discord and prism Minecraft launcher. Portage so far has had everything else I needed. Sometimes I had to enable an overlay but still, I think that's pretty good. I rather native over flat packs.I haven't had the itch to go to another distro.I haven't solved the unworking Wayland yet, but I also haven't been super bothered to try. I prefer xorg, it's easier for me to set up keybindings for my kingsington slim blade. I never figured it out in Wayland. I wish kde wasn't going to drop xorg support. I'll either have to eventually solve that or move to another DE or WM setup.Anyways, it's been only 10 days lol out feels longer than that. I thought it's been a month lol. Either way it's been pleasant so far.
It can't get better than this It can't get better than thisu/Debian-Serbia•2 mo. agoIt can't get better than thisScreenshotXfceClang / nomultilib profileUngoogled chromium binDual core E6500Playing youtube on 40 celsius.By the God's grace, this is faster than when it was invented 15 years ago.
Nvidia-Drivers Nvidia-Driversu/hangint3n•2 mo. agoNvidia-DriversDiscussionAnyone experiencing kernel panic on shutdown or reboot with lastest nvidia-drivers-580.119.02? I'm only guessing that this is the source of the problem. It's the only major piece of software I've installed recently. I'm getting this on kernels 6.17.9, 6.18.0, & 6.18.1
Using patches to alter config paths Using patches to alter config pathsu/CheCheDaWaff•2 mo. agoUsing patches to alter config pathsDiscussionAfter installing yet another program that decided to use my home folder to store a config file recently I had an idle thought – with the patch system on Gentoo you could, if you really wanted to, just change the config path in the code.I'm not completely serious about trying this but just wondering, if I were, what would be the natural way to go about making a repo containing only patches? Is that even possible, or does a patch need to apply to an ebuild only in the same repo as it?
Mullvad VPN + Gentoo? Mullvad VPN + Gentoo?u/Diligent-Side-9663•2 mo. agoMullvad VPN + Gentoo?SupportIs Mullvad VPN supported? If so, how do I use and install it?
Can someone ELI5 what is dm-pcache that was introduced on Linux Kernel 6.18? Can someone ELI5 what is dm-pcache that was introduced on Linux Kernel 6.18?u/fsoci3ty_•2 mo. agoCan someone ELI5 what is dm-pcache that was introduced on Linux Kernel 6.18?DiscussionSo I was updating my kernel today and came across this:A new device-mapper target dm-pcache arrives, enabling use of persistent memory (e.g. NVDIMM/CXL) as a cache layer for block devices, useful for systems with fast non-volatile memory, SSDs, or hybrid storage.Then I started searching on the web how to use this device-mapper, how to properly setup... just to test you know? But I couldn't find anything besides blog posts and personal opinions on this. So, can anyone tell me how it works and if it is something that could be interesting on a day-to-day desktop?
Should I switch from NixOS to Gentoo Should I switch from NixOS to Gentoou/purelyannoying•18 days agoShould I switch from NixOS to GentooDiscussionSo basically I tried installing gentoo and failed but then i actually followed the manual better and installed it Gentoo is amazing i love the customizability but theres one problem I am so anxious about my system breaking and losing everything (cant make a backup of 1TB of stuff right now)  but with NixOS i dont worry about that I know i can install Nix on Gentoo but i dont have sudo install (I use doas) nor systemd (i use openrc) so is there some way to install Nix or idk maybe have a few config files (has to be all in one place so i remember) for everything  Thank you for your time
Help me creating a bootable Gentoo USB. Help me creating a bootable Gentoo USB.u/Stable_Dorian•2 mo. agoHelp me creating a bootable Gentoo USB.SupportHello everyone. I have used Linux since the beginning of 2025 with Debian, on my personal computer. Unfortunately, Linux doesnotrun well on my PC. So I decided to use Linux on a USB key, and continue improving my system management skills by trying Gentoo. So I installed the "livegui" version and tried to find a way to verify the authenticity of my image. To my mind, the instructions are confusing. Can someone help me with this process ?
Gentoo on a low end CPU, worth using on my daily computer? Gentoo on a low end CPU, worth using on my daily computer?u/Ok-Olive466•23 days agoGentoo on a low end CPU, worth using on my daily computer?Supportpretty much what the title says. I've been looking through reddit and i found some things about gentoo and i got quite curious. But, compiling time is what i fear the most, and i don't know if it's worth trying it out.I Don't know if it makes sense, but... is really this "bad" or some people just exaggerates about it?Oh, and i'm kinda intermediate on Linux, and i'm not afraid of breaking the system a few times to learn about something hahaMy PC :i5 347016gb ramssd nvme 512gbRX 5700(i know, no need to mention about the bottleneck)
First time Building a System using: PGO/LTO/OpenMP/SIMD-Opts First time Building a System using: PGO/LTO/OpenMP/SIMD-Optsu/fspnet•22 days agoFirst time Building a System using: PGO/LTO/OpenMP/SIMD-OptsSupportFirst time Building a System using: PGO/LTO/OpenMP/SIMD-OptsSimply Using safe From Wiki : -march=skylake -mtune=skylake -O3 -ffast-math -flto -fopenmp -fgraphite -floop-block -floop-parallelize-allRUSTFLAGS="${RUSTFLAGS} -C opt-level=3 -C target-cpu=skylake"FEATURES="nostrip"USE="-bindist branding experimental graphite lto openmp pgo"....................... Scrubbing 1nce Scrubbing 2wice, why do they call it rice.. thats what that guys dropping on the floor..
Give me your weirdest kernel names. Give me your weirdest kernel names.u/seenhokage•2 mo. agoGive me your weirdest kernel names.Discussion
Why didn’t Gentoo Ever release an ebuild for Ly login manager? Why didn’t Gentoo Ever release an ebuild for Ly login manager?u/seenhokage•2 mo. agoWhy didn’t Gentoo Ever release an ebuild for Ly login manager?DiscussionI’ve realized there’s only greetd, and tuigreet which I didn’t like. Ly detects DEs automatically, and lets me customize many things. Why didn’t gentoo ever made an ebuild for Ly? What if I make one? How would I give it to gentoo
Hardening my gentoo install Hardening my gentoo installu/Happy_Director_2077•2 mo. agoHardening my gentoo installSupportSo I have installed what I generally want, but I want to harden my system for security. Can I just add the hardened and SELinux use flags and update the world set? or do I have to change the profile, and even if I do I have X11 and many packages that depend on my current use flags so what do I do
Gentoo Linux: Optimization options? Gentoo Linux: Optimization options?u/RealNovanized•2 mo. agoGentoo Linux: Optimization options?DiscussionEverywhere I go, I see Gentoo Linux user being portrayed as the *absolutely optimized" type-of-guy, but using Gentoo Linux myself (for 3 weeks already) I feel like that's not true (or partly true that is)Now, please tell me something, fellow Gentoo user. How do you guys optimize your system to the point where people could call Gentoo user "optimization freak" and how do you really know if it's really optimize?Thanks!
Custom kernel stuck in boot screen Custom kernel stuck in boot screenu/Bubbly_Extreme4986•22 days agoCustom kernel stuck in boot screenSupport
Experiment of the day: Plasma gles2-only Experiment of the day: Plasma gles2-onlyu/Loggu0•2 mo. agoExperiment of the day: Plasma gles2-onlyDiscussion
Is it possible to boot gentoo with proprietary nvidia drivers and no initramfs ? Is it possible to boot gentoo with proprietary nvidia drivers and no initramfs ?u/AdPast1329•2 mo. agoIs it possible to boot gentoo with proprietary nvidia drivers and no initramfs ?SupportMy reasoning is that if there is no root encryption and I'm not running special boot options, I do not need an initramfs to boot, so whether the kernel gets to load the video kernel modules before ot after mounting the real root does matter (with the exception of some logs not appearing on the screen).Has anyone done this before and is this even possible?
XFCE4 breaks completely XFCE4 breaks completelyu/Selmi1•1 mo. agoXFCE4 breaks completelySupport
Instant-On Boot-up Instant-On Boot-upu/Ok_Resist_7581•2 mo. agoInstant-On Boot-upScreenshot
first installation ever w/ first installation ever w/u/Vogelhaufen•2 mo. agofirst installation ever w/Discussion
Pipewire Bluetooth blue man says I’m connected but audio still plays out of main speakers Pipewire Bluetooth blue man says I’m connected but audio still plays out of main speakersu/Bubbly_Extreme4986•22 days agoPipewire Bluetooth blue man says I’m connected but audio still plays out of main speakersSupportBluetooth is enabled globallyBluetooth service is runningPipewire is runningDbus is runningElogind is runningOpenRC is my init systemI’m on a dist kernel so that’s not the issue.Please help I would really loathe to use an LLM, I’ve exhausted the wiki page on this.JBL 770NC. It usually sounds of concerned but won’t do that for my gentoo install leading me to believe that blue man is lying and I’m not really connected.
Font management at install Font management at installu/JoeMamaSex420•2 mo. agoFont management at installSupportIs there a way to install Gentoo with a singular font and remove all others? How can I also change the default font installed (I think liberation mono) and also apply these changes to the tty.
I bootable server. Bios? I bootable server. Bios?u/diacid•2 mo. agoI bootable server. Bios?SupportHello! Maybe you could put some lights on my problem....I had a server running fedora server 43. One day, I shut it down because of electricity instability due to weather, and when I wanted to bring it online again, it refused to boot. It has 4 sata drives and / was on /dev/SDC, and it was failing to mount it. I had many tries fixing /etc/fstab to no avail and tried everything until gave up and tried installing it fresh. Anaconda can't install the system, doesn't actually say why. Ok, let's try Debian... Well, I then understood why Linus Torvalds once said installing Debian was too difficult (and that's why he never tried it), "installation error" with no details. Yes, tried installing on all 4 drives in many different combinations and with all 3 different Debian installers.Then tried upgrading the bios, because of a weird "Debian" option just sitting there. Well, the weird option is not there anymore, but still, no luck.Got tired of automation, decided to install gentoo "so I can check myself what exactly fails". Having installed it in my main computer, I was confident enough the installation problem would make itself apparent.... Well... The installation went great, but it does not boot....Do you think changing the motherboard could help? I could use a processor update (same power for way more processing, sounds intelligent), and a motherboard with modern nvme and lots of sata ports and etc... But am I crazy to believe the motherboard is malfunctioning?
any reason why gcc is not used? any reason why gcc is not used?u/fix_and_repair•23 days agoany reason why gcc is not used?Discussionany reason why gcc is not used?Except one abi breakage I do not see any issues in over 1200 packages.[code]Sat Aug  9 12:29:52 2025 >>> sys-devel/gcc-15.2.0merge time: 49 minutes and 30 seconds.Sat Aug  9 19:10:52 2025 >>> sys-devel/gcc-14.3.1_p20250801merge time: 42 minutes and 19 seconds.Mon Oct 27 17:54:08 2025 >>> sys-devel/gcc-15.2.1_p20251025merge time: 50 minutes and 35 seconds.Mon Nov  3 00:00:41 2025 >>> sys-devel/gcc-15.2.1_p20251101merge time: 49 minutes and 24 seconds.Wed Nov 12 03:15:17 2025 >>> sys-devel/gcc-15.2.1_p20251108merge time: 49 minutes and 4 seconds.Sat Nov 22 14:51:22 2025 >>> sys-devel/gcc-14.3.1_p20251017merge time: 18 minutes and 12 seconds.Sat Nov 22 15:43:50 2025 >>> sys-devel/gcc-14.3.1_p20251017merge time: 47 minutes and 57 seconds.Sun Nov 23 15:26:31 2025 >>> sys-devel/gcc-15.2.1_p20251108-r1merge time: 49 minutes and 52 seconds.Fri Nov 28 09:12:52 2025 >>> sys-devel/gcc-15.2.1_p20251122merge time: 49 minutes and 21 seconds.Fri Dec 26 05:06:21 2025 >>> sys-devel/gcc-15.2.1_p20251220merge time: 44 minutes and 19 seconds.Fri Dec 26 08:43:12 2025 >>> sys-devel/gcc-15.2.1_p20251220merge time: 44 minutes and 5 seconds.Fri Dec 26 21:19:04 2025 >>> sys-devel/gcc-15.2.1_p20251220merge time: 44 minutes and 18 seconds.Sun Dec 28 23:39:23 2025 >>> sys-devel/gcc-15.2.1_p20251220merge time: 46 minutes and 13 seconds.Mon Dec 29 09:08:48 2025 >>> sys-devel/gcc-14.3.1_p20251017merge time: 39 minutes and 52 seconds.Wed Dec 31 11:00:45 2025 >>> sys-devel/gcc-15.2.1_p20251227merge time: 51 minutes and 31 seconds.Tue Jan  6 18:18:20 2026 >>> sys-devel/gcc-15.2.1_p20260103merge time: 44 minutes and 42 seconds.[/code]How comes ebuilds do not utilise newer gcc.for the few packages which fail to build, portage should switch to stable gcc:14current: 0 packages!I am well aware of, i am two weeks behind my gcc as of today.Gentoo uses now gcc which is over 2 months old. With all security issues and bugs which exists publicly announced or not.
Can't set some things up on hyprland+waybar Can't set some things up on hyprland+waybaru/GBember•2 mo. agoCan't set some things up on hyprland+waybarSupportHi! I've been trying to set up hyprland + waybar for some time now and there are some things I can't get working. Firstly, the system tray is absolutely broken, neither discord or vesktop show up under any circumstances, keepassxc needed around 6 seconds of delay before autostarting or it wouldn't show up there, even with 0 delay qbittorrent appears as usual in the tray. It seems like the bar takes way too long to start and that somehow messes with keepassxc.I tried installing dev-libs/libappindicator but that didn't workScreensharing doesn't work at all, pressing to chose a screen or window doesn't do anything and yes, the hyprland portal is running.All of that work perfectly under KDE so it's not a linux limitation.EDIT: Hey guys, so the problem was I wasn't launching hyprland through dbus, tuigreet and openrc doesn't do it automatically
I am planning to switch to gentoo I am planning to switch to gentoou/Doomboi238•19 days agoI am planning to switch to gentooSupportSo i am planning to switch to gentoo. I heavily used debian before but i didnt like its user friendly route. I tried arch linux but pacman is a piece of shit. So i think i'll try the route of gentoo. Any tips and advices before i start? I appreciate it
Use Gentoo? Love Gentoo? Are you donating to Gentoo? Use Gentoo? Love Gentoo? Are you donating to Gentoo?u/jsled•2 mo. agoUse Gentoo? Love Gentoo? Are you donating to Gentoo?DiscussionReminder,Gentoo accepts donations through Software in the Public Interest (SPI).If you're using Gentoo, you should be donating to Gentoo; even a buck or two a month from a lot of people can make a difference.
Wifi interface is state down mode dormant and i cant fix it Wifi interface is state down mode dormant and i cant fix itu/Roger_manowar•2 mo. agoWifi interface is state down mode dormant and i cant fix itSupportAt one point i was connected to the internet but then i had to change networks , there are no duplicates of wpa_suplicant the drivers are running fine and doing ip link set wlp0s20f3 up doesnt work i have even tried reinstaling gentoo but even on the livecd it was state down mode dormant and i just dont know what to do
Gentoo help (grub bootloader) Gentoo help (grub bootloader)u/Disastrous-Fly5402•17 days agoGentoo help (grub bootloader)Discussion
Umm...searching old cruft ......emacs gnus ... 😜 Umm...searching old cruft ......emacs gnus ... 😜u/unixbhaskar•20 days agoUmm...searching old cruft ......emacs gnus ... 😜Screenshot
Xiaomaomi - Agent For GNU/Linux Xiaomaomi - Agent For GNU/Linux[deleted]•2 mo. agoXiaomaomi - Agent For GNU/LinuxDevelopment
No, damn! I am apprehensive....bloody hell No, damn! I am apprehensive....bloody hellu/unixbhaskar•23 days agoNo, damn! I am apprehensive....bloody hellSupporthttps://paste.gentoo.zip/9ydQCzyz
How can I replace gentoo-kernel-bin with gentoo-kernel? How can I replace gentoo-kernel-bin with gentoo-kernel?u/__NekoNeko__•16 days agoHow can I replace gentoo-kernel-bin with gentoo-kernel?SupportI just finished installing gentoo for the first time, and I used gentoo-kernel-bin at first because I wanted to have my pc up and running faster, but now, I wish to replace gentoo-kernel-bin with  gentoo-kernel (so it can be compiled on my machine), how can I do so?
OpenRC, profile-sync-daemon, and newer Firefox OpenRC, profile-sync-daemon, and newer Firefoxu/krumpfwylg•2 mo. agoOpenRC, profile-sync-daemon, and newer FirefoxDiscussionEarlier today, I read aPhoronix articleabout changes coming in Firefox 147, the profiles folder will change from $HOME/.mozilla to .config and/or .local/share, following the XDG specs.After discovering that, my concern went to the fact I'm usingprofile-sync-daemon(psd) - an utility to load the entire profile into RAM to save many writes on disk. Despite psd version 6+ having a systemd dependency, an older version compatible (5.75) with OpenRC is still available on gentoo repo.The trouble is, upstream will certainly not patch an older version, as psd is now systemd only, gentoo's maintainer won't provide a patch, as he kinda has vanished, and currently, version 5.75 is condemned to be removed from repo at some point, seehttps://bugs.gentoo.org/678658So I'm wondering, is there anyone out here, with time and skills, to create a fork of psd that would support OpenRC, or even better both systemd and openrc, and provide patches so that daemon continue working with future versions of Firefox ?(the same question has beenposted on gentoo's forum)
What is that Gentoo What is that Gentoou/PlayRood•23 days agoWhat is that GentooSupportHi, I have been using Arch Linux for about a year and a half, and I want to try Gentoo. I don't really know what to expect. Can you give me an introduction to what it is and how it works?I know pacman on Arch - what’s the Gentoo equivalent?thanks in advance
Migrated my old workstation Gentoo to my 1st build PC. Migrated my old workstation Gentoo to my 1st build PC.u/Remote_Difference_76•2 mo. agoMigrated my old workstation Gentoo to my 1st build PC.Screenshot
how firefox-bin still can be emerge if i did -getbinpkgs globaly? It just change from binary to ebuild and install binary. how firefox-bin still can be emerge if i did -getbinpkgs globaly? It just change from binary to ebuild and install binary.u/OldPhotograph3382•24 days agohow firefox-bin still can be emerge if i did -getbinpkgs globaly? It just change from binary to ebuild and install binary.Discussionhow firefox-bin still can be emerge if i did -getbinpkgs globaly? It just change from binary to ebuild and install binary.
Difference between a UKI and a big kernel Difference between a UKI and a big kernelu/JoeMamaSex420•1 mo. agoDifference between a UKI and a big kernelSupportWhat is the difference between a unified kernel image and a kernel which is an efi stub and had had the initramfs and cmdline embedded in at compile time.The gentoo wiki distinguishes a kernel booting from an efi stub from a uki in the efi stub article but the arch wili defines it ad "A unified kernel image (UKI) is a single executable which can be booted directly from UEFI firmware, or automatically sourced by boot loaders with little or no configuration."How exactly are these things different ?
Installing a Gentoo server! Installing a Gentoo server!u/diacid•2 mo. agoInstalling a Gentoo server!Screenshot
Are there any Gentoo-based distros that let me try it and maybe make it my main rather than a custom install? Are there any Gentoo-based distros that let me try it and maybe make it my main rather than a custom install?u/RX08T•19 days agoAre there any Gentoo-based distros that let me try it and maybe make it my main rather than a custom install?Discussion
make.conf check :) make.conf check :)u/AX_5RT•18 days agomake.conf check :)SupportHello, I am still new to Gentoo and ran it only for 4 months without any issues. although, I'm concerned about my make.conf file and I wanna check if there are any mistakes. (sorry for bad English)thank you!# These settings were set by the catalyst build script that automatically # built this stage. # Please consult /usr/share/portage/config/make.conf.example for a more # detailed example. COMMON_FLAGS="-march=native -O2 -pipe" CFLAGS="${COMMON_FLAGS}" CXXFLAGS="${COMMON_FLAGS}" FCFLAGS="${COMMON_FLAGS}" FFLAGS="${COMMON_FLAGS}"  # NOTE: This stage was built with the bindist USE flag enabled  # This sets the language of build output to English. # Please keep this setting intact when reporting bugs. LC_MESSAGES=C.UTF-8 RUSTFLAGS="${RUSTFLAGS} -C target-cpu=native" MAKEOPTS="-j12 -l10" GENTOO_MIRRORS="https://mirror.eu.oneandone.net/linux/distributions/gentoo/gentoo/ \     https://ftp.linux.org.tr/gentoo/" USE="-gnome kde -qt5 qt6 -dvd -dvdr -cdrom -cdda -cdr dist-kernel polkit gui verify-sig dbus pipewire  wayland -tkip -webengine spice virgl sdl usbredir python rar"  ACCEPT_LICENSE=" @BINARY-REDISTRIBUTABLE @EULA" GRUB_PLATFORMS="efi-64" PORTAGE_TMPDIR="/var/tmp/portage" VIDEO_CARDS="intel iris virgl" INPUT_DEVICES="libinput" L10N="en-US ar-OM ja"
emerge --sync asking for git login emerge --sync asking for git loginu/tsukayamafonts•2 mo. agoemerge --sync asking for git loginSupporttitle. this is something i've been encountering specifically with overlay repos, but i've not been able to sync quite a few repos for the past couple weeks because it asks me for github login details when trying to sync. it never did this before, and i'm really not sure what to do here.
how much does compiling all packages reduce the lifespan of my computer? how much does compiling all packages reduce the lifespan of my computer?u/th3_oWo_g0d•1 mo. agohow much does compiling all packages reduce the lifespan of my computer?Discussionngl I think Gentoo sounds interesting and I don't have any problems with the compilation experience in itself, but I'm worried that if I were to daily drive Gentoo, my computer would get old quickly. I'm aware that it would allow for some optimizations that might reduce work load when I'm actively using it, but it doesn't sound that convincing.What are your experiences? How much do you compile and how does it affect your baby?
8 cores or 16 cores for Gentoo? 8 cores or 16 cores for Gentoo?u/MrTetillas•19 days ago8 cores or 16 cores for Gentoo?SupportHello!!I am building my first desktop PC and I am trying to decide between a Ryzen 7 5700X and a Ryzen 9 5900XT + 32gb RAM DDR4.I want to learn Gentoo and get a deeper understanding of Linux and how the whole ecosystem works. From what I have read, Gentoo seems like a good way to really learn what is going on under the hood.For this kind of use, do you think 8 cores are enough, or is it worth going for 16 cores? How noticeable is the difference when compiling in real-world use?
Can compilation be offloaded to a dedicated build system? Can compilation be offloaded to a dedicated build system?u/signalclown•2 mo. agoCan compilation be offloaded to a dedicated build system?SupportCan I just temporarily rent a high-end server from AWS to do the actual compilation and then just fetch binaries from it, or could this cause any problems?
Help with TOR Help with TORu/diacid•2 mo. agoHelp with TORSupportJust installed Tor (bothwww-client/torbrowser-launcher-0.3.7-r2:0/0::torbrowserandnet-vpn/tor) but I am getting this error... I am almost sure the browser does not connect to the Tor network... Any ideas? ThanksEdit: Worked!!! Just had to mess up with/usr/local/proxy.pac. Used default configs fromhere, and edited the port at about:config network.proxy.socks_port.
My Favorite Gentoo Meme hahaha My Favorite Gentoo Meme hahahau/The_Coding_Knight•2 mo. agoMy Favorite Gentoo Meme hahahaMeme
Ideal size for my root partition while having a separate home partition? Ideal size for my root partition while having a separate home partition?u/selfgr•2 mo. agoIdeal size for my root partition while having a separate home partition?TipI only have a 480GB SSD for my whole Gentoo system. Do you guys have suggestions as to how big my root partition should be? I don't plan on installing a lot of packages, and I'm going to use a minimal window manager - won't be using something like Kde or Gnome. I've seen people recommending the root partition to be something around 30-60GB, what do you think?
Is sudo safer than su? Is sudo safer than su?u/C1REX•2 mo. agoIs sudo safer than su?SupportWhile testing different distributions I’ve realised that pretty much all of them allow me to do $ sudo su. That means it can skip password requests for $ sudo su if I’ve used sudo before.Is sudo with default settings any safer than simple su that requires different password and never skips password request? Can sudo be a security risk more than extra safety with default settings?I assume I’m missing the point and I’m just ignorant. Can someone explain why should I use sudo over su, please?
Ugly Portage error - AssertionError: setcpv recursion detected Ugly Portage error - AssertionError: setcpv recursion detectedu/ClinkerBuilt90•2 mo. agoUgly Portage error - AssertionError: setcpv recursion detectedSupportMy fellow Gentooers, I may have finally met my match with this Portage error. Haven't had to do anything except use the noggin and the handbook to keep Gentoo going... until now.Clearly this isn't a widespread issue. It seems potentially similar toBug 966832, but I don't have any odd syntax like that in my package.accept_keywords. Maybe there is something else wrong in my configs somewhere, or maybe even an issue with python.Rolling back to portage 3.0.69.3-r2 from 3.0.72 fixes the issue for me for now. But since it isn't a widespread issue, I am starting to wonder if there is something else going on with my setup, not just portage.EDIT: This is the exact same bug as linked above after all. I just needed to create a post to work up the motivation to fix it :P~ $ sudo emerge -avuDN u/world  These are the packages that would be merged, in order:  Calculating dependencies... done! Dependency resolution took 4.27 s.  Traceback (most recent call last):  File "/usr/lib/python-exec/python3.13/emerge", line 51, in main  retval = emerge_main()  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/main.py", line 1314, in emerge_main  return run_action(emerge_config)  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/actions.py", line 4114, in run_action  retval = action_build(emerge_config, spinner=spinner)  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/actions.py", line 416, in action_build  success, mydepgraph, favorites = backtrack_depgraph(  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^  settings, trees, myopts, myparams, myaction, myfiles, spinner  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^  )  ^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 11852, in backtrack_depgraph  success, mydepgraph, favorites, backtracked, max_retries = _backtrack_depgraph(  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^  settings, trees, myopts, myparams, myaction, myfiles, spinner  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^  )  ^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 11911, in _backtrack_depgraph  success, favorites = mydepgraph.select_files(myfiles)  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^^^^^^^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 4833, in select_files  return self._select_files(args)  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^^^^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 5279, in _select_files  return self._resolve(myfavorites)  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^^^^^^^^^^^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 5477, in _resolve  if not self._create_graph():  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 3079, in _create_graph  if not self._add_pkg_deps(dep, allow_unsatisfied=allow_unsatisfied):  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 4222, in _add_pkg_deps  if not self._add_pkg_dep_string(  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^  pkg, dep_root, dep_priority, dep_string, allow_unsatisfied  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^  ):  ^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 4239, in _add_pkg_dep_string  return self._wrapped_add_pkg_dep_string(  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^  pkg, dep_root, dep_priority, dep_string, allow_unsatisfied  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^  )  ^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 4343, in _wrapped_add_pkg_dep_string  for atom, child in self._minimize_children(  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^  pkg, dep_priority, root_config, selected_atoms[pkg]  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^  ):  ^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 4587, in _minimize_children  dep_pkg, existing_node = self._select_package(  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^  root_config.root, atom, parent=parent  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^  )  ^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 7046, in _select_pkg_highest_available  ret = self._select_pkg_highest_available_imp(  root, atom, onlydeps=onlydeps, parent=parent  )  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 7308, in _select_pkg_highest_available_imp  pkg, existing = self._wrapped_select_pkg_highest_available_imp(  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^  root, atom, onlydeps=onlydeps, parent=parent  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^  )  ^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 7657, in _wrapped_select_pkg_highest_available_imp  for pkg in self._iter_match_pkgs(  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^  root_config,  ^^^^^^^^^^^^  ...<2 lines>...  onlydeps=onlydeps,  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^  ):  ^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 6935, in _iter_match_pkgs_atom  pkg = self._pkg(  cpv,  ...<4 lines>...  myrepo=getattr(cpv, "repo", None),  )  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 8616, in _pkg  not self._pkg_visibility_check(pkg)  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^^^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 7356, in _pkg_visibility_check  if pkg.visible:  ^^^^^^^^^^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/Package.py", line 225, in visible  self._visible = self._eval_visibility(self.masks)  ^^^^^^^^^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/Package.py", line 219, in masks  self._masks = self._eval_masks()  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/Package.py", line 464, in _eval_masks  missing_licenses = settings._getMissingLicenses(self.cpv, self._metadata)  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/portage/package/ebuild/config.py", line 2553, in _getMissingLicenses  metadata["USE"],  ~~~~~~~~^^^^^^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/Package.py", line 903, in __getitem__  v = self._pkg._init_use()  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/Package.py", line 704, in _init_use  use_str = self._get_pkgsettings()["PORTAGE_USE"]  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/Package.py", line 681, in _get_pkgsettings  pkgsettings.setcpv(self)  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^^^^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/portage/package/ebuild/config.py", line 1784, in wrapper  return f(self, *args, **kwargs)  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/portage/package/ebuild/config.py", line 1901, in setcpv  stable = self._isStable(cpv_slot) if hasattr(cpv_slot, "_metadata") else None  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^^^^^^^^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/portage/package/ebuild/config.py", line 2459, in _isStable  return self._keywords_manager.isStable(  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^  pkg,  ^^^^  self.get("ACCEPT_KEYWORDS", ""),  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^  self.configdict["backupenv"].get("ACCEPT_KEYWORDS", ""),  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^  )  ^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/portage/package/ebuild/_config/KeywordsManager.py", line 137, in isStable  unmaskgroups = self.getPKeywords(pkg, None, None, global_accept_keywords)  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/portage/package/ebuild/_config/KeywordsManager.py", line 349, in getPKeywords  pkg_accept_keywords = ordered_by_atom_specificity(pkgdict, cpv)  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/portage/package/ebuild/_config/helper.py", line 36, in ordered_by_atom_specificity  bestmatch = best_match_to_list(pkg, keys)  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/portage/dep/__init__.py", line 2415, in best_match_to_list  for x in match_to_list(mypkg, mylist):  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/portage/dep/__init__.py", line 2375, in match_to_list  if not (x in matches or matches_add(x)) and match_from_list(x, pkgs)  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^^^^^^^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/portage/dep/__init__.py", line 2702, in match_from_list  use = getattr(x, "use", None)  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/Package.py", line 676, in use  self._init_use()  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/Package.py", line 704, in _init_use  use_str = self._get_pkgsettings()["PORTAGE_USE"]  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/Package.py", line 681, in _get_pkgsettings  pkgsettings.setcpv(self)  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^^^^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/portage/package/ebuild/config.py", line 1781, in wrapper  raise AssertionError("setcpv recursion detected") AssertionError: setcpv recursion detected
how do i download gentoo quick how do i download gentoo quicku/lexsvrr•25 days agohow do i download gentoo quickSupportis there like an archinstall but for gentoo bc im lazy
can't sync gentoo can't sync gentoou/omgmyusernameistaken•2 mo. agocan't sync gentooSupportAnyone else getting this error? It worked last time (this week) and haven't made any changes.suPassword:gentoo /home/ # emaint -a sync>>> Syncing repository 'gentoo' into '/var/db/repos/gentoo'.../usr/bin/git fetch origin --verbose --depth 1error: cannot open '.git/FETCH_HEAD': Permission denied!!! git fetch error in /var/db/repos/gentoo>>> Syncing repository 'guru' into '/var/db/repos/guru'.../usr/bin/git fetch origin --verbose --depth 1POST git-upload-pack (442 bytes)POST git-upload-pack (gzip 2462 to 1209 bytes)remote: Total 0 (delta 0), reused 0 (delta 0), pack-reused 0 (from 0)Fromhttps://github.com/gentoo-mirror/guru= [up to date] master -> origin/master/usr/bin/git reset --merge refs/remotes/origin/master=== Sync completed for guru* Copying old database to /var/cache/eix/previous.eix* Running eix-updateReading Portage settings...Building database (/var/cache/eix/portage.eix)...[0] "gentoo" /var/db/repos/gentoo/ (cache: metadata-md5-or-flat)Reading category 183|183 (100) Finished[1] "guru" /var/db/repos/guru (cache: parse|ebuild*3.0.24#metadata-md5#metadata-flat#assign)Reading category 183|183 (100) FinishedApplying masks...Calculating hash tables...Writing database file /var/cache/eix/portage.eix...Database contains 21205 packages in 183 categoriesAction: sync for repo: gentoo, returned code = 255Action: sync for repo: guru, returned code = 0
Should I change to Gentoo? Should I change to Gentoo?u/pastrefrola•26 days agoShould I change to Gentoo?SupportGuys, a few days ago in a Reddit post, someone commented that I should try Gentoo. Now I've been looking at other Reddit posts where people also say great things about Gentoo. So I wanted to ask you if it's really a distro that fits my profile. Before I spend time (and mental health) learning how to use it. Writing this post may be lazy, and I should probably look for more information online, but I also think it's better to get first-hand information from people who use this distro.I'm a third-year college student (I'm now in my fourth year, although classes haven't started yet) studying Computer Science. So I have a certain foundation of concepts that could help me with this task. I also use Arch Linux, I like the fact that I don't bloat my operating system with programs I don't need. What I like about Arch is that once I've set up the OS, all I have to do is use it and be careful when updating packages.I don't really know much about Gentoo, I know that you compile the operating system and that's it. I've heard something about USE Flags but I don't quite understand what they are. I've watched several videos talking about Gentoo trying to get an overview of what the distro is, but most of them are poorly explained or go into too much technical detail without really explaining what they're talking about.So I would appreciate it if you could give me a well-explained overview of Gentoo or tell me if, based on what I just told you about my "Linux usage profile", it would be a good idea for me to use it for a while :)
will my pc run good? will my pc run good?u/ConsistentNarwhal731•2 mo. agowill my pc run good?Supporti have 4gigs of ram 65GB ssd Intel I5 1.40Ghz HdGraphics3000 will my pc be able to run it and its apps smoothly?
Gentoo on basic PC Gentoo on basic PCu/That-Secret-4987•2 mo. agoGentoo on basic PCSupportHi everyone! I wanted to ask for your help. I recently got a decent PC with an AMD 8600G, 16GB of dual-channel RAM, a 1TB NVMe SSD, and an RX 9060XT. I wanted to use it to compile Gentoo on a laptop, specifically one with an Intel Celeron N4020, 8GB of RAM, a 480GB SSD, and a UHD 600. I wanted to know what method I could use to do it. This was my list of distributions: locOS, Debian, antix-base, antix-core, Alpine Linux, and finally Void Linux, which is the one I currently use on another, older PC and my favorite. But I wanted to try Gentoo Linux on this more modern laptop. I know I should read the manual, and I will, but I wanted to know what you all recommend. I was also thinking of creating a kernel with TinyConfig and then adding only what I need from there.
Pyqt5 won't compile after update Pyqt5 won't compile after updateu/zhr75•2 mo. agoPyqt5 won't compile after updateSupport
Why SDDM screen turns on only if charger is connected? Why SDDM screen turns on only if charger is connected?u/http-error-502•2 mo. agoWhy SDDM screen turns on only if charger is connected?SupportSituation: When charger is connected, everything is fine(Blank screen on laptop and login page on HDMI screen). However. If charger is disconnected, HDMI connected display say "NO signal". Also, if HDMI is disconnected, login screen doesn't show on screen of laptop.I cannot guess which one is responsible for it so I will post logs of probable faulty services... Ask free to request more logs if you need.journalctl -o short-precise -k -b -1link/var/log/Xorg.0.log.oldlink/etc/X11/xorg.conf# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig # nvidia-xconfig:  version 550.107.02  Section "ServerLayout"     Identifier     "Layout0"     Screen      0  "Screen0"     Inactive       "InactiveDevice1"     InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"     InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer" EndSection  Section "Files" EndSection  Section "InputDevice"     # generated from data in "/etc/conf.d/gpm"     Identifier     "Mouse0"     Driver         "mouse"     Option         "Protocol"     Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"     Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"     Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5" EndSection  Section "InputDevice"     # generated from default     Identifier     "Keyboard0"     Driver         "kbd" EndSection  Section "Monitor"     Identifier     "Monitor0"     VendorName     "Unknown"     ModelName      "Unknown"     Option         "DPMS" EndSection  Section "Device"     Identifier     "Device0"     Driver         "nvidia"     VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"     BusID          "PCI:1:0:0" EndSection  Section "Device"     Identifier     "InactiveDevice1"     Driver         "modesetting"     VendorName     "Unknown" EndSection  Section "Screen"     Identifier     "Screen0"     Device         "Device0"     Monitor        "Monitor0"     DefaultDepth    24     Option         "AllowEmptyInitialConfiguration" "True"     SubSection     "Display"         Depth       24     EndSubSection EndSection  Section "Module" Load "vnc" EndSection Section "Screen" Identifier "Default Screen" Option "PasswordFile" "/etc/X11/vncpasswd" EndSection/etc/sddm.conf.d/01gentoo.conf[General] # Remove qtvirtualkeyboard as InputMethod default InputMethod=AsGentoo SDDM troubleshooting page:/etc/modules-load.d/video.confnvidia nvidia_modeset nvidia_uvm nvidia_drmOn kernel option[*] Enable legacy fbdev support for your modesetting driver
I finally did it I finally did itu/bankroll5441•2 mo. agoI finally did itScreenshot
made a working gentoo desktop on a vm made a working gentoo desktop on a vmu/stvpidcvnt111111•2 mo. agomade a working gentoo desktop on a vmScreenshot
planning to install Gentoo for first time planning to install Gentoo for first timeu/loshara33333•2 mo. agoplanning to install Gentoo for first timeTiphi guys, I'm gonna get a thinkpad t480 soon, and i want to install gentoo on it. any tips? (i've already read the handbook, but i wonder if there's something more that i should know)
SUCCESS! Bare metal first time install! SUCCESS! Bare metal first time install!u/lord_mythus•2 mo. agoSUCCESS! Bare metal first time install!DiscussionI have succeeded at installing gentoo! I have even added my first overlay.I have learned a lot during this, and worked through a lot of issues. Namely, SDDM sucks. I ended up switching to lightdm to be able to log in. I got most things working now.Currently struggling with:kde-wayland doesn't work... kde-x11 does though. Something to dig into I guess later.my brother mfc-j4335dw isn't working. This is odd to me since it has always just worked on other distros. Any hints here will be appreciated lol. I even extracted a ppd file and tried to use that, nothing. It just laughs at me in binary. I don't need my printer right away so I guess I have time to figure this out, but I think I've earned a break from bug crushing for the day lol.
For those of you who have created and maintained your own ebuild repos - can you do it without root access? Please share your workflow tips! For those of you who have created and maintained your own ebuild repos - can you do it without root access? Please share your workflow tips!u/eveloth•27 days agoFor those of you who have created and maintained your own ebuild repos - can you do it without root access? Please share your workflow tips!SupportGentoo Wiki has agood articleon creating ebuild repositories.However, it features creating these repositories as root, and this kinda differs from the development workflow I got used to as a SWE. I have configured my editor and some useful env vars like git commiter email etc. for my regular user - this isn't that big of a deal to transfer those configurations, but I prefer not to overuse root user privileges.I would be happy to get some advice!
Cflags Cflagsu/Sky_is_the_limit0•2 mo. agoCflagsDiscussionHello guys i have a question for you . Do you use -O3 -ofast rather that -O2 and if you answers is yes why you do it ?
redundant USE flags redundant USE flagsu/krumpfwylg•2 mo. agoredundant USE flagsTipSomething for maniacs (like me) who enjoy to keep their config files clean, the redundant-use script.It will check USE flags in your make.conf and package.use, and compare those to those enabled by default in your current profile. Script can be run without root permissions, as it just reads files. It doesn't modify any configuration files, the cleanup is something you have to do yourself, the script will only display existing redundant flags.It comes with 2 files portage-utils.bash and redundant-use.sh, both need to be in the same folder for the script to work.Github link :https://gist.github.com/whitslack/7a831faf3c6b0abf64077faeaafed015Original forum topic :https://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic-p-7335248.html
Hey Gentoo's Hey Gentoo'su/Historical_Visit138•20 days agoHey Gentoo'sSupportI really want to try gentoo, but I'm not fully understanding the wiki and I tried YouTube tutorials online, and I still get errors. I want to try it in a VM then on a real pc. Any tips on understanding the wiki more in order?I want to try minimal install successfully!
Trying to install Hyprland getting this demonic USE Flag error Trying to install Hyprland getting this demonic USE Flag erroru/LastHornet6059•2 mo. agoTrying to install Hyprland getting this demonic USE Flag errorSupport
Minimize GPL packages usage Minimize GPL packages usageu/Napych•2 mo. agoMinimize GPL packages usageDiscussionHi.I’m tuning one more Gentoo binhost (amd64 and arm64). It’s llvm+musl. The goal is to minimize copyleft-licensed code usage and prefer licenses such as BSD and MIT whenever it’s possible.Do you have any tips & tricks?Disclaimer: I’m not against GPL. My desktop and hardened binhosts are full of GPL licensed software. No holy wars please.
A simple wallpaper to grab. A simple wallpaper to grab.u/C1REX•2 mo. agoA simple wallpaper to grab.Screenshot
Gentoo on ARM, VirtualBox + Apple M4 Gentoo on ARM, VirtualBox + Apple M4u/Nekorai46•2 mo. agoGentoo on ARM, VirtualBox + Apple M4ScreenshotBeen itching to do something with Linux since switching to ARM via an Apple MacBook, so decided to give a Gentoo install a go!This is XFCE + LabWC running on a compiled Gentoo install (binary kernel) with Desktop + Systemd Stage 3.As you can see this is a Wayland-only install, USE X has been disabled. I have manually re-enabled it for packages like `cairo` and `gtk+` only since they require it.Install only took a few hours, with the largest part being the desktop. I have yet to compile Firefox, as I'm still grappling with compilation options for it. Using a binary kernel was a massive time saver...
I built my first new machine in 12 years. Who knew compiling could be so good?! I built my first new machine in 12 years. Who knew compiling could be so good?!u/jrcomputing•2 mo. agoI built my first new machine in 12 years. Who knew compiling could be so good?!Screenshot
Plasma fails to start on Gentoo, Qt xcb plugin error after login Plasma fails to start on Gentoo, Qt xcb plugin error after loginu/poteto-ya•2 mo. agoPlasma fails to start on Gentoo, Qt xcb plugin error after loginSupportAfter logging in via SDDM, I get a black screen with the Plasma cursor visible.this is the result from plasmashell in the tty"qt.qpa.xcb: could not connect to displayqt.qpa.plugin: From 6.5.0, xcb-cursor0 or libxcb-cursor0 is needed to load the Qt xcb platform pluginqt.qpa.plugin: could not load the Qt platform plugin "xcb" in "" even though it was foundThis application has failed to start because no Qt platform plugin could be initialised"
Grub and efistub is giving me hell, can I put /boot and /efi on the same partition? Grub and efistub is giving me hell, can I put /boot and /efi on the same partition?u/zazentown•2 mo. agoGrub and efistub is giving me hell, can I put /boot and /efi on the same partition?SupportIs it possible to mount a fat32 esp partition to both /boot and /efi? I want the folder structure like this on the partition/EFI/BOOT/BOOTX64.EFI/boot/grub or efistubsCould I do something likeUUID=SUMTING /efi vfat umask=0077 0 2UUID=SUMTING/boot /boot none bind 0 2I'd prefer something more elegant though and im still an initiate in the wizardry of gentoo.The problem I have is I have an incredibly slow laptop with a Luks2 encrypted root partition and I'm having a hell of a time getting it to boot. Grub2 says invalid password and uuid is missing (its not), efistub booted once and then never again, and i dont know the easiest way to just reconfigure this stuff so I've just been re-emerging the kernel everytime, which takes forever.The ideal setup is an efistub with the initramfs built into it (is that possible?) at /efi/EFI/BOOT/BOOTX64.EFI. None of the useflags or ugrd/dracut seems to want to put the kernel efistub there though, am I missing something? This would alleviate any boot incompatibilities with the UEFI and removes the unnecessary bootloader. I hate the efibootmgr creating custom entries because if that entry gets lost from maybe a bios update or restore factory settings then the computer won't boot anymore and that's a problem.EDIT: If I can just mount the esp at /boot, is there a way I can create a script that is called everytime dracut or ugrd creates the initramfs that copies the kernel efi to /boot/EFI/BOOT/BOOTX64.EFI?I'm looking for a way to make a solid boot path that isn't reliant on buggy software or an intricate web of complexities in the boot process. Is this possible?My laptop is incredibly slow so I want to know what I'm doing before I start trial and erroring... again.Thanks
Need help with install process, no openrc and is blocked? Need help with install process, no openrc and is blocked?u/lord_mythus•2 mo. agoNeed help with install process, no openrc and is blocked?SupportSolved. I picked the wrong thing. Fixed now.Ok, so I am at the install process where you run "rc-update add dhcpcd defaultrc-update add dhcpcd default"however I went to run that it says command not found. I tried to emerge openrc however I get this:tblocks B      ] sys-apps/sysvinit ("sys-apps/sysvinit" is soft blocking sys-apps/systemd-257.10)  * Error: The above package list contains packages which cannot be * installed at the same time on the same system.   (sys-apps/sysvinit-3.15-1:0/0::gentoo, binary scheduled for merge) pulled in by    >=sys-apps/sysvinit-2.86-r6 required by (sys-apps/openrc-0.62.10-1:0/0::gentoo, binary scheduled for merge) USE="netifrc pam sy svinit unicode -audit -bash -debug -newnet -s6 (-selinux) -sysv-utils" ABI_X86="(64)"   (sys-apps/systemd-257.10-1:0/2::gentoo, binary scheduled for merge) pulled in by    sys-apps/systemd required by (virtual/tmpfiles-0-r5-2:0/0::gentoo, installed) USE="systemd" ABI_X86="(64)"I installed profile 7, which was listed as the kde profile and not the one with systemd. I added -systemd openrc to my use flags and even recompiled the kernel. Still I can't seem to get past this stupid step. Every step I've followed I made sure it wasn't the steps involving systemd. Did I miss something? Can someone help please?
/boot/efi is not mounted /boot/efi is not mountedu/madjic•2 mo. ago/boot/efi is not mountedSupportgentoo-kernelhas been complaining for a while about my ESP not mounted under/boot/efi, but until recently it still put the kernel and initrd into/boot.Now it's not even doing that. I know my ESP isn't mounted, it's not necessary for updating the kernel. I'm using rEFInd and that's scanning my/bootpartition for kernels.I have a entry in myfstabfor/boot/efi, since I want to do stuff theresometimes, but it's not mounted automatically. I've also tried to mount itro, but iirc portage still complained.Is there a setting or switch somewhere I can flip to disable this behaviour?
Noob help Noob helpu/The_Real_Garo•19 days agoNoob helpSupportBefore you say to RTFL, know that i did but i still have an issue.I'm trying to install Gentoo but the thing is that i want to enable disk encryption so i did things both from the Install Guide and the Full Disk Encryption From Scratch but i cant seem to be able to boot.I installed all the things it needed made sure the cmdline is correct watch 2 tutorials and still nothing, every time i try to boot it asks the password, i put the password and still nothing.Is is something that must be done that isnt mentioned in the guide?Info:I used the bin kernel since im still testing, for bootloader i first used limine but now i switched to grub, i do not have secure boot enabled and i use systemd instead of openrc
Kde or icewm logs out after a few minutes Kde or icewm logs out after a few minutesu/lord_mythus•2 mo. agoKde or icewm logs out after a few minutesSupportOk I'm almost there. But.... I can't seem to keep kde running. I'll log in, then after a minute or so it looks back out to sddm. I also tried icewm, so I could at least have a graphical environment to troubleshoot in. Same thing. This is no longer being fun y'all....
Computer goes to sleep, but forever. Help needed. Computer goes to sleep, but forever. Help needed.u/diacid•22 days agoComputer goes to sleep, but forever. Help needed.SupportRecently reinstalled my computer. Dual boot Gentoo + Debian.This time I am using openRC, and when the computer is idle, it suspends. The problem is, it doesn't wake back up. I have no clue what is the problem, can somebody help? Thank you!And before you say try systemd... well, samething happening on Debian 13 in dual boot, and also the kernel is a different version that was gathering dust on the back shelf, instead of gentoo's new kernel....The red interesting part of dmesg is near the end, in the screenshot above, but the whole dmesg is to big to fit here.
Finally solved all my issues Finally solved all my issuesu/Forward_Actuator_592•2 mo. agoFinally solved all my issuesDiscussion
Did sys-kernel/gentoo-kernel build my custom kernel configuration? Did sys-kernel/gentoo-kernel build my custom kernel configuration?u/urboinemo•28 days agoDid sys-kernel/gentoo-kernel build my custom kernel configuration?DiscussionHello all, I have a custom kernel configuration for enabling features related to Intel GVT-G for my KVM/QEMU setup. I originally configured my system using sys-kernel/gentoo-kernel, built the 6.12.58 kernel from sys-kernel/gentoo-sources, did not deselect from the distribution kernel moving forward, then emerged the 6.12.63 distribution kernel.To my surprise, the modules I set to load in GRUB were being loaded without errors on the 6.12.63 kernel to the point I had not realized I was still opted into the distribution kernel. I figure that emerge saw my previous configuration and built it automatically, however I thought that I would have to build the kernel manually to get the configuration options I had set each time I emerged a new kernel as theKernel page discusses.I figure this is probably a fundamental misunderstanding to how portage completes the automatic build process, but I would appreciate some clarification about how this happened. My apologies if this has already been discussed in the documentation!
Gentoo LUKS boot fails with "invalid passphrase" despite correct password - systemd/GRUB setup Gentoo LUKS boot fails with "invalid passphrase" despite correct password - systemd/GRUB setupu/The_Real_Garo•19 days agoGentoo LUKS boot fails with "invalid passphrase" despite correct password - systemd/GRUB setupSupportHello everyone,I'm installing Gentoo with full disk encryption (LUKS2 + LVM) following the official wiki guides. The system boots to GRUB, prompts for my LUKS passphrase, but rejects it even though the same password works fine when unlocking from the live CD.So far i have:Followed both theGentoo HandbookandFull Disk Encryption From ScratchguidesVerified/etc/crypttabcontains correct UUID (matchesblkid /dev/nvme0n1p2)Confirmed/etc/kernel/cmdlinehas:rd.luks.uuid=<UUID> rd.lvm.vg=vg0 root=/dev/mapper/vg0-root rootfstype=xfsAddedGRUB_CMDLINE_LINUXwith LUKS parameters to/etc/default/grubVerifiedgrub.cfgincludes the LUKS/LVM kernel parametersSetGRUB_ENABLE_CRYPTODISK=yin/etc/default/grubChanged LUKS passphrase to simple "123" to rule out keyboard layout issuesRebuilt initramfs with dracut includingcrypt,lvm,dmmodulesVerifiedcryptsetupbinary is present in initramfsMore details:Disk:/dev/nvme0n1p1(512MB EFI, unencrypted) +/dev/nvme0n1p2(LUKS2)LVM: vg0/root (XFS) + vg0/swap inside LUKS containerKernel: gentoo-kernel-bin 6.18.7Init: systemdBootloader: GRUB (initially tried Limine, switched to GRUB)What happens currently:System bootsPassword prompt appears (Enter passphrase ...)Password "123" is rejected as "invalid passphrase"Same password unlocks/dev/nvme0n1p2successfully from live CD usingcryptsetup openIs there anything that i am missing? Any issue with dracut/systemd initramfs password handling that I'm missing?EDIT:The solution was to change the encryption from argon2id to pbkdf2 now the initramfs handles unlocking properly.
Terminal issues when using ssh Terminal issues when using sshu/hyper_radiant294•18 days agoTerminal issues when using sshSupport
Is the LiveGUI USB image iso file a installer? Is the LiveGUI USB image iso file a installer?u/No_Magician178•1 mo. agoIs the LiveGUI USB image iso file a installer?Discussion> Is the LiveGUI USB image iso file a installer?for more context, when i was looking at the iso options i saw the livegui and was wondering if it was a installer instead of the usual handbook-like console guide
Is a gaming-oriented profile something that could be considered in the future? Is a gaming-oriented profile something that could be considered in the future?u/C1REX•2 mo. agoIs a gaming-oriented profile something that could be considered in the future?DiscussionHi everyone, I’ve been wondering whether Gentoo might one day offer a gaming focused profile. perhaps something like desktop/kde/gaming or desktop/gnome/gaming?Back in the early 2000s, Gentoo had a bit of a reputation as the  best distro for gaming - especially with the old gaming-sources kernel. Today, with gaming on Linux growing so much, I’m curious whether a modern profile or a set of recommended defaults could help users get good gaming performance more easily on Gentoo.Some other distros (like CachyOS, Bazzite,Nobara) offer gaming friendly defaults or newer drivers and I’d love to see what the community thinks about whether something similar could fit into Gentoo’s philosophy.I’m asking out of genuine curiosity and enthusiasm - not as a criticism. I’m really happy with Gentoo and wondering whether a profile like this would be useful, helpful or feasible.Do you think gaming could help gentoo?
Gaming performance 10-15% lower than in gaming distros. Gaming performance 10-15% lower than in gaming distros.u/C1REX•2 mo. agoGaming performance 10-15% lower than in gaming distros.SupportEDIT. Solved!!!Hi,I’m getting about 10%-15% less FPS in Games on Gentoo comparing to Bazzite and CachyOS. Tested in prebuilt benchmarks and by simply looking at a chosen spot and comparing current FPS.What’s weird it seems to be in both - CPU bound and GPU bound scenarios.Any tips where to look for a fix? I don’t know where to even start.I've only made sure my CPU is in performance mode. It was in powersave mode by default.I run a Ryzen 7800x3D + 7900xtx. Stable branch. KDE+Wayland. Same Proton on both. Native Steam client on Gentoo.EDIT (SOLVED):That oddly high performance drop was caused by KDE desktop effects like transparency, wobbly windows, etc.
Gentoo Onlycores... Gentoo Onlycores...u/varsnef•2 mo. agoGentoo Onlycores...Screenshot
Finally switched to Gentoo Finally switched to Gentoou/Straight-Price-1601•2 mo. agoFinally switched to GentooScreenshot
Error when trying to open two librewolf windows at the same time. Error when trying to open two librewolf windows at the same time.u/edjak53•2 mo. agoError when trying to open two librewolf windows at the same time.SupportHello. I installed librewolf-bin usingthis gentoo wiki guidebut whenever i click on a link outside of librewolf I get a pop-up saying "LibreWolf is already running, but is not responding. To use LibreWolf, you must first close the existing LibreWolf process, restart your device, or use a different profile."Oh and i'm on X11, and dbus is installed.
Curious how people here choose browsers for Gentoo setups Curious how people here choose browsers for Gentoo setupsu/eren_yeager04•2 mo. agoCurious how people here choose browsers for Gentoo setupsDiscussionI recently switched to Neo on one of my Gentoo installs just to see how it behaves with my custom environment. It has been surprisingly stable so far but I am still experimenting. For those who run Gentoo daily, how do you decide which browser fits your workflow. Do you prioritize compile options, performance under heavy tasks, or just general feel.
What browsers do you use on musl gentoo? What browsers do you use on musl gentoo?u/GuiltyVisit9119•26 days agoWhat browsers do you use on musl gentoo?DiscussionI was unsuccessful with firefox and surf installations.
Need help moving my gentoo install to a smaller drive Need help moving my gentoo install to a smaller driveu/Key_Canary_4199•27 days agoNeed help moving my gentoo install to a smaller driveSupportHello!I wanted to make my old laptop "usable" again with gentoo, but didn't want to wait forever for it to finish compiling. I created a vm in which I installed a generic gentoo install. I now wanted to put this image onto a physical usb drive for me to boot off and then customize.I now have the following problem: the virtual drive is larger than my physical drive (31,66GB vs 31,45GB). I tried just not imaging over the last part but that left the system unbootable, I tried resizing the partition using parted but that left the system unbootable, I tried defragmenting and resizing the partition but that left the system ubootable, I followed a guide and created a new Image with only 30GB in size and copied the contents over and ajusted the fstab, but that left the system unbootable.The partition layout is as follows:500MB efi partition in fat324GB swap27,5GB root partition in xfs. (only 13GB used)by not bootable, I mean grub starting up fine, the kernel loading fine, but the system halts without error message when openrc tries to start.Thank you In advance!
What is @__auto_slot_operator_replace_installed__ ? What is @__auto_slot_operator_replace_installed__ ?u/palapapa0201•27 days agoWhat is @__auto_slot_operator_replace_installed__ ?SupportAfter runningemerge -atvuDU --verbose-conflicts --autounmask --autounmask-continue --autounmask-license=y @world --keep-going, this is the output I got:These are the packages that would be merged, in reverse order:  Calculating dependencies -[nomerge       ] app-crypt/veracrypt-1.26.20::gentoo  USE="X asm -doc" CPU_FLAGS_X86="sse2 sse4_1 ssse3"  [ebuild     U  ]  sys-apps/pcsc-lite-2.4.0-r1::gentoo [2.3.3::gentoo] USE="(policykit) systemd udev -embedded -libusb (-selinux)" ABI_X86="(64) -32 (-x32)" PYTHON_SINGLE_TARGET="python3_13 -python3_11 -python3_12" 207 KiB [nomerge       ] app-i18n/mozc-2.32.5994.102::gentoo  USE="fcitx5 gui ibus -debug -emacs -renderer -savedconfig -test"  [ebuild     U  ]  app-i18n/fcitx-5.1.16:5::gentoo [5.1.14:5::gentoo] USE="X autostart emoji enchant keyboard server systemd wayland -doc -presage -test" 8189 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] net-libs/webkit-gtk-2.48.5-r411:4.1/0::gentoo  USE="X avif gstreamer introspection jpegxl jumbo-build lcms pdf (seccomp) spell systemd wayland (-aqua) -examples -gamepad -keyring" 43098 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] media-plugins/frei0r-plugins-2.4.1-r1::gentoo  USE="facedetect scale0tilt -doc" ABI_X86="(64) -32 (-x32)" 914 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] kde-plasma/kdeplasma-addons-6.5.4:6::gentoo  USE="alternate-calendar handbook -debug -share -webengine" 1072 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] dev-tex/bibtexu-3.72_p20240311::gentoo  USE="-doc -source" 68497 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] app-text/gspell-1.14.0-r1:0/3::gentoo  USE="introspection vala -gtk-doc -test" 114 KiB [ebuild     U ~] www-client/firefox-147.0:rapid::gentoo [146.0.1:rapid::gentoo] USE="X clang dbus gmp-autoupdate hwaccel jumbo-build openh264 pgo pulseaudio system-av1 system-harfbuzz system-icu system-jpeg system-libevent system-libvpx system-pipewire system-png system-webp telemetry wayland -debug -eme-free -gnome-shell -hardened -jack (-jpegxl) -libproxy (-selinux) -sndio -test (-valgrind) -wasm-sandbox -wifi" L10N="-ach -af -an -ar -ast -az -be -bg -bn -br -bs -ca -ca-valencia -cak -cs -cy -da -de -dsb -el -en-CA -en-GB -eo -es-AR -es-CL -es-ES -es-MX -et -eu -fa -ff -fi -fr -fur -fy -ga -gd -gl -gn -gu -he -hi -hr -hsb -hu -hy -ia -id -is -it -ja -ka -kab -kk -km -kn -ko -lij -lt -lv -mk -mr -ms -my -nb -ne -nl -nn -oc -pa -pl -pt-BR -pt-PT -rm -ro -ru -sc -sco -si -sk -skr -sl -son -sq -sr -sv -szl -ta -te -th -tl -tr -trs -uk -ur -uz -vi -xh -zh-CN -zh-TW" LLVM_SLOT="21 -19 -20" 643878 KiB [ebuild     U  ] net-vpn/openvpn-2.6.17-r1::gentoo [2.6.14::gentoo] USE="lz4 lzo openssl pam plugins systemd -dco -down-root -examples -inotify -iproute2 -mbedtls -pkcs11 (-selinux) -test" 1889 KiB [ebuild     U ~] mail-client/thunderbird-147.0:0/stable::gentoo [146.0.1:0/stable::gentoo] USE="X clang hwaccel pulseaudio system-av1 system-harfbuzz system-jpeg system-libevent system-librnp system-libvpx system-pipewire system-png system-webp wayland -debug -eme-free -hardened -jack -libproxy (-pgo) (-selinux) -sndio (-system-icu) -wifi" L10N="-af -ar -ast -be -bg -br -ca -cak -cs -cy -da -de -dsb -el -en-CA -en-GB -es-AR -es-ES -es-MX -et -eu -fi -fr -fy -ga -gd -gl -he -hr -hsb -hu -id -is -it -ja -ka -kab -kk -ko -lt -lv -ms -nb -nl -nn -pa -pl -pt-BR -pt-PT -rm -ro -ru -sk -sl -sq -sr -sv -th -tr -uk -uz -vi -zh-CN -zh-TW" LLVM_SLOT="21 -19 -20" 761984 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] kde-plasma/spectacle-6.5.4-r1:6::gentoo  USE="handbook -debug -share -test" 0 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] kde-apps/konsole-25.08.3:6::gentoo  USE="X handbook -debug -test" 1807 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] app-office/libreoffice-25.2.7.2-r1::gentoo  USE="bluetooth branding cups dbus gtk3 kde mariadb qt6 vulkan -accessibility -base (-coinmp) -custom-cflags -debug -eds -googledrive -gstreamer -gtk4 -java -ldap -odk -pdfimport -postgres -test -valgrind" LIBREOFFICE_EXTENSIONS="-nlpsolver -scripting-beanshell -scripting-javascript -wiki-publisher" PYTHON_SINGLE_TARGET="python3_13 -python3_11 -python3_12" 354392 KiB [nomerge       ] x11-base/xorg-server-21.1.20:0/21.1.20::gentoo  USE="systemd udev xorg xvfb -debug (-elogind) -minimal (-selinux) -suid -test -unwind -xcsecurity -xephyr -xnest"  [nomerge       ]  x11-base/xorg-drivers-21.1-r2::gentoo  INPUT_DEVICES="libinput synaptics -elographics -evdev -joystick -vmmouse -void -wacom" VIDEO_CARDS="intel nvidia -amdgpu -ast -dummy -fbdev (-freedreno) (-geode) -i915 -mga -nouveau (-omap) -qxl -r128 -radeon -radeonsi -siliconmotion (-tegra) (-vc4) -vesa (-via) (-virtualbox) -vmware"  [ebuild     U ~]   x11-drivers/nvidia-drivers-590.48.01-r1:0/590::gentoo [590.48.01:0/590::gentoo] USE="X dist-kernel kernel-open%* modules static-libs strip tools wayland -modules-compress -modules-sign -persistenced -powerd" ABI_X86="32 (64)" 0 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] kde-plasma/plasma-workspace-6.5.4-r1:6::gentoo  USE="X fontconfig handbook ksysguard (policykit) screencast semantic-desktop systemd wallpaper-metadata -appstream -debug -networkmanager -telemetry -test" 0 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] app-text/texlive-core-2024-r1::gentoo  USE="X cjk luajittex xetex -doc -source -tk -xindy" 4841 KiB [ebuild  r  U  ] media-libs/opencv-4.12.0-r1:0/4.12.0::gentoo [4.11.0-r1:0/4.11.0::gentoo] USE="avif contrib contribdnn eigen features2d ffmpeg gif jpeg opengl openmp png qt6 tiff truetype vulkan wayland webp -atlas (-contribcvv) -contribfreetype (-contribhdf) (-contribovis) (-contribsfm) (-contribxfeatures2d) (-cuda) (-cudnn) -debug -doc -examples -gdal (-gflags) (-glog) -gphoto2 -gstreamer -gtk3 -ieee1394 -jasper -java -jpeg2k -lapack (-mkl) -non-free -opencl -opencvapps -openexr -openni -openni2 -python -quirc -spng -tbb (-tesseract) -test -testprograms -v4l -vaapi (-vtk) -wechat-qrcode% -xine (-dnnsamples%)" ABI_X86="(64) -32 (-x32)" CPU_FLAGS_X86="avx avx2 f16c fma3 popcnt sse sse2 sse3 sse4_1 sse4_2 ssse3 -avx512_4fmaps -avx512_4vnniw -avx512_bitalg -avx512_vbmi2 -avx512_vnni -avx512_vpopcntdq -avx512bw -avx512cd -avx512dq -avx512er -avx512f -avx512ifma -avx512pf -avx512vbmi -avx512vl" PYTHON_TARGETS="python3_13 -python3_11 -python3_12" VIDEO_CARDS="intel" 209389 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] dev-qt/qtwebengine-6.10.1:6/6.10.1::gentoo  USE="alsa jumbo-build opengl pdfium pulseaudio qml screencast system-icu vulkan widgets -accessibility -bindist -custom-cflags -designer -geolocation -kerberos -test -vaapi -webdriver" 860505 KiB [nomerge       ] kde-plasma/plasma-workspace-6.5.4-r1:6::gentoo  USE="X fontconfig handbook ksysguard (policykit) screencast semantic-desktop systemd wallpaper-metadata -appstream -debug -networkmanager -telemetry -test"  [nomerge       ]  dev-libs/kirigami-addons-1.10.0:6::gentoo  USE="-debug -test"  [ebuild     U  ]   dev-qt/qtmultimedia-6.10.1-r1:6/6.10.1::gentoo [6.10.1:6/6.10.1::gentoo] USE="X alsa dbus ffmpeg opengl pipewire pulseaudio qml vulkan wayland -custom-cflags -eglfs -gstreamer -test -v4l -vaapi" 9691 KiB [ebuild  rR    ]  dev-qt/qt5compat-6.10.1:6/6.10.1::gentoo  USE="gui icu qml -custom-cflags -test" 14273 KiB [ebuild     U  ]   dev-qt/qtdeclarative-6.10.1-r2:6/6.10.1::gentoo [6.10.1-r1:6/6.10.1::gentoo] USE="jit network opengl sql ssl svg vulkan widgets -accessibility -custom-cflags -qmlls" 36673 KiB [ebuild  rR    ]    dev-qt/qtbase-6.10.1:6/6.10.1::gentoo  USE="X concurrent cups dbus gtk gui icu libinput libproxy mysql network nls opengl sql sqlite ssl udev vulkan wayland widgets xml (zstd) -accessibility -brotli -custom-cflags -eglfs -evdev -gles2-only -gssapi -journald -oci8 -odbc -postgres -renderdoc -sctp -syslog -test -tslib" 49058 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] dev-libs/libical-3.0.20-r2:0/3::gentoo  USE="glib introspection -doc -examples -static-libs -test -vala" 952 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] media-libs/harfbuzz-12.2.0:0/6.0.0::gentoo  USE="cairo glib graphite icu introspection truetype -debug -doc -experimental -test" ABI_X86="32 (64) (-x32)" 17795 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] dev-qt/qtcore-5.15.18:5/5.15.18::gentoo  USE="icu -debug -old-kernel -test" 50734 KiB [nomerge       ] sys-kernel/installkernel-63::gentoo  USE="dracut systemd systemd-boot -efistub -grub -refind -ugrd -uki -ukify"  [ebuild     U  ]  sys-kernel/dracut-108-r5::gentoo [108-r4::gentoo] USE="systemd%* -debug -dracut-cpio (-selinux) -test" 0 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] media-libs/raptor-2.0.16-r1:2::gentoo  USE="-debug -json -static-libs" ABI_X86="(64) -32 (-x32)" 1710 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] net-libs/nodejs-22.13.1:0/22::gentoo  USE="icu npm snapshot ssl system-icu system-ssl -corepack -debug -doc -inspector (-lto) -pax-kernel -test" CPU_FLAGS_X86="sse2" 46916 KiB [nomerge       ] sci-libs/libqalculate-5.8.2:0/23.3::gentoo  USE="curl hardened icu readline -gnuplot -test"  [nomerge       ]  dev-build/libtool-2.5.4:2::gentoo  USE="-vanilla"  [nomerge       ]   dev-build/automake-1.18.1:1.18::gentoo  USE="-test -verify-sig"  [nomerge       ]    dev-lang/perl-5.42.0-r1:0/5.42::gentoo  USE="gdbm -berkdb -doc -minimal" PERL_FEATURES="(-debug) -ithreads -quadmath"  [nomerge       ]     app-admin/perl-cleaner-2.31-r2::gentoo  USE="-pkgcore"  [nomerge       ]      sys-apps/portage-3.0.72-r1::gentoo  USE="(ipc) native-extensions rsync-verify xattr -apidoc -build -doc -gentoo-dev (-selinux) -test" PYTHON_TARGETS="python3_13 -python3_12 -python3_14"  [nomerge       ]       app-alternatives/gpg-1-r3::gentoo  USE="nls reference ssl -freepg -sequoia"  [nomerge       ]        app-crypt/gnupg-2.5.16::gentoo  USE="alternatives bzip2 nls readline smartcard ssl tofu usb -doc -ldap (-selinux) -test -tools -tpm -user-socket (-verify-sig) -wks-server"  [nomerge       ]         app-crypt/pinentry-1.3.2-r1::gentoo  USE="X gtk ncurses qt6 wayland -caps -efl -emacs -keyring (-verify-sig)"  [nomerge       ]          gnome-base/gnome-keyring-48.0-r1::gentoo  USE="pam ssh-agent systemd -caps (-selinux) -test"  [nomerge       ]           app-crypt/gcr-3.41.2-r2:0/1::gentoo  USE="X gtk introspection systemd vala wayland -gtk-doc -test"  [nomerge       ]            x11-libs/gtk+-3.24.51:3::gentoo  USE="X cups introspection wayland (-aqua) -broadway -cloudproviders -colord -examples -gtk-doc -sysprof -test -vim-syntax -xinerama" ABI_X86="32 (64) (-x32)"  [nomerge       ]             net-print/cups-2.4.14-r1::gentoo  USE="X acl dbus pam systemd usb -debug -kerberos -openssl (-selinux) -static-libs -test -xinetd -zeroconf" ABI_X86="32 (64) (-x32)"  [nomerge       ]              x11-misc/xdg-utils-1.2.1-r9::gentoo  USE="X dbus plasma -doc -gnome -perl"  [nomerge       ]               kde-plasma/kde-cli-tools-6.5.4:6::gentoo  USE="X -debug -kdesu"  [nomerge       ]                kde-frameworks/kio-6.20.0:6/6.20::gentoo  USE="X acl handbook kwallet wayland -debug -designer -test"  [nomerge       ]                 kde-frameworks/solid-6.20.0:6/6.20::gentoo  USE="-debug -ios -test"  [nomerge       ]                  sys-fs/udisks-2.10.2-r1:2::gentoo  USE="acl daemon introspection nls systemd -debug (-elogind) -lvm (-selinux)"  [nomerge       ]                   sys-auth/polkit-126-r2::gentoo  USE="gtk introspection kde nls pam systemd -examples (-selinux) -test"  [ebuild     U  ]                    sys-auth/pambase-20251104-r1::gentoo [20251104::gentoo] USE="nullok passwdqc systemd yescrypt* -caps -debug (-elogind) -gnome-keyring -homed -minimal -mktemp -pam_krb5 (-pam_ssh) -pwhistory -pwquality -securetty (-selinux) -sha512* -sssd" 5 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] sci-libs/libqalculate-5.8.2:0/23.3::gentoo  USE="curl hardened icu readline -gnuplot -test" 2316 KiB [ebuild     U  ] sys-apps/systemd-258.3:0/2::gentoo [257.10:0/2::gentoo] USE="acl boot dns-over-tls gcrypt kernel-install kmod lz4 openssl pam pcre (policykit) resolvconf seccomp sysv-utils zstd -apparmor -audit -bpf -cgroup-hybrid -cryptsetup -curl -elfutils -fido2 -gnutls -homed -http -idn -importd -iptables -lzma -passwdqc% -pkcs11 -pwquality -qrcode -secureboot (-selinux) (-split-usr) -test -tpm -ukify -vanilla -xkb" ABI_X86="32 (64) (-x32)" PYTHON_SINGLE_TARGET="python3_13 -python3_11 -python3_12 -python3_14%" 16636 KiB [ebuild     U  ]  dev-lang/python-3.13.11:3.13::gentoo [3.13.9:3.13::gentoo] USE="ensurepip gdbm ncurses pgo readline sqlite ssl tk -bluetooth -debug -examples (-jit) -libedit -test -valgrind -verify-sig" LLVM_SLOT="18" 22181 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] dev-libs/re2-2024.07.02:0/11::gentoo  USE="icu -test" ABI_X86="(64) -32 (-x32)" 382 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] media-libs/libzmf-0.0.2-r1::gentoo  USE="-debug -doc -test -tools" 314 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] media-libs/libvisio-0.1.10::gentoo  USE="-doc -test -tools" 1995 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] media-libs/libcdr-0.1.8::gentoo  USE="-doc -test" 612 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] dev-libs/xerces-c-3.3.0:0/3.3::gentoo  USE="iconv icu -curl -doc -examples -static-libs -test -threads" CPU_FLAGS_X86="sse2" 4211 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] app-text/libqxp-0.0.2::gentoo  USE="-debug -doc -test -tools" 334 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] app-text/libmspub-0.1.4::gentoo  USE="-doc -static-libs" 369 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] app-text/libebook-0.1.3-r4::gentoo  USE="-doc -test -tools" 407 KiB [ebuild  rR    ]  dev-libs/boost-1.88.0-r1:0/1.88.0::gentoo  USE="bzip2 context icu nls stacktrace zlib -debug -doc -lzma -mpi -numpy -python -test -test-full -tools -zstd" ABI_X86="(64) -32 (-x32)" PYTHON_TARGETS="python3_13 -python3_11 -python3_12 -python3_14%" 140522 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] dev-db/sqlite-3.50.4:3::gentoo  USE="icu readline -debug -doc -secure-delete -static-libs -tcl -test -tools" ABI_X86="(64) -32 (-x32)" 14057 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] dev-libs/libxml2-2.15.1:2/16::gentoo  USE="icu readline -doc -python -static-libs -test" ABI_X86="32 (64) (-x32)" PYTHON_TARGETS="python3_13 -python3_11 -python3_12 -python3_14" 1958 KiB [ebuild  r  U ~]  dev-libs/icu-78.2:0/78::gentoo [77.1:0/77::gentoo] USE="-debug -doc -examples -static-libs -test -verify-sig" ABI_X86="32 (64) (-x32)" 27316 KiB [nomerge       ] media-gfx/blender-4.4.3:4.4::gentoo  USE="X bullet color-management cycles cycles-bin-kernels embree ffmpeg fftw fluid gmp nanovdb nls oidn openexr opengl openmp openpgl opensubdiv openvdb pdf pipewire potrace pugixml pulseaudio sdl sndfile tbb tiff truetype vulkan wayland webp -alembic -collada (-cuda) -debug -doc -gnome (-hip) (-hiprt) -jack -jemalloc -jpeg2k -man -ndof -openal -optix -osl -renderdoc -test -valgrind" LLVM_SLOT="19 -18" PYTHON_SINGLE_TARGET="python3_13 -python3_11 -python3_12"  [nomerge       ]  media-libs/openexr-3.3.3:0/32::gentoo  USE="-doc -examples -large-stack -test -threads -utils" CPU_FLAGS_X86="avx"  [ebuild     U  ]   app-arch/libdeflate-1.25::gentoo [1.24::gentoo] USE="utils -test" ABI_X86="(64) -32 (-x32)" 193 KiB [nomerge       ] dev-qt/qtbase-6.10.1:6/6.10.1::gentoo  USE="X concurrent cups dbus gtk gui icu libinput libproxy mysql network nls opengl sql sqlite ssl udev vulkan wayland widgets xml (zstd) -accessibility -brotli -custom-cflags -eglfs -evdev -gles2-only -gssapi -journald -oci8 -odbc -postgres -renderdoc -sctp -syslog -test -tslib"  [ebuild     U  ]  dev-db/mysql-connector-c-8.0.41-r1:0/21::gentoo [8.0.41:0/21::gentoo] USE="-ldap -static-libs" ABI_X86="(64) -32 (-x32)" 0 KiB [nomerge       ] sci-libs/libqalculate-5.8.2:0/23.3::gentoo  USE="curl hardened icu readline -gnuplot -test"  [nomerge       ]  net-misc/curl-8.17.0-r1::gentoo  USE="adns alt-svc ftp hsts http2 http3 httpsrr imap openssl pop3 psl quic smtp ssl tftp websockets -brotli -debug (-ech) -gnutls -gopher -idn -kerberos -ldap -mbedtls -rtmp (-rustls) -samba -sasl-scram -ssh -static-libs -telnet -test -verify-sig -zstd" ABI_X86="(64) -32 (-x32)" CURL_QUIC="openssl -ngtcp2" CURL_SSL="openssl -gnutls -mbedtls (-rustls)"  [ebuild     U  ]   net-dns/c-ares-1.34.6:0/2::gentoo [1.34.5:0/2::gentoo] USE="-static-libs -test -verify-sig" ABI_X86="(64) -32 (-x32)" 995 KiB [nomerge       ] sys-apps/systemd-258.3:0/2::gentoo [257.10:0/2::gentoo] USE="acl boot dns-over-tls gcrypt kernel-install kmod lz4 openssl pam pcre (policykit) resolvconf seccomp sysv-utils zstd -apparmor -audit -bpf -cgroup-hybrid -cryptsetup -curl -elfutils -fido2 -gnutls -homed -http -idn -importd -iptables -lzma -passwdqc% -pkcs11 -pwquality -qrcode -secureboot (-selinux) (-split-usr) -test -tpm -ukify -vanilla -xkb" ABI_X86="32 (64) (-x32)" PYTHON_SINGLE_TARGET="python3_13 -python3_11 -python3_12 -python3_14%"  [ebuild  N     ]  acct-group/clock-0::gentoo  0 KiB [nomerge       ] kde-plasma/plasma-meta-6.5.4:6::gentoo  USE="X bluetooth browser-integration crash-handler crypt cups display-manager firewall gtk kwallet pulseaudio qt5 sddm smart systemd thunderbolt wacom wallpapers webengine -accessibility -discover (-elogind) -flatpak -grub -networkmanager -oxygen-theme -plymouth -rdp -sdk -unsupported"  [nomerge       ]  kde-plasma/kde-cli-tools-6.5.4:6::gentoo  USE="X -debug -kdesu"  [nomerge       ]   kde-frameworks/kcmutils-6.20.0:6/6.20::gentoo  USE="-debug -test"  [nomerge       ]    kde-frameworks/kio-6.20.0:6/6.20::gentoo  USE="X acl handbook kwallet wayland -debug -designer -test"  [nomerge       ]     kde-frameworks/knotifications-6.20.0:6/6.20::gentoo  USE="-debug"  [nomerge       ]      media-libs/libcanberra-0.30-r8::gentoo  USE="alsa pulseaudio udev -gstreamer -oss -tdb" ABI_X86="(64) -32 (-x32)"  [nomerge       ]       media-libs/alsa-lib-1.2.14::gentoo  USE="-debug -doc -python" ABI_X86="32 (64) (-x32)" PYTHON_SINGLE_TARGET="python3_13 -python3_11 -python3_12"  [ebuild     U  ]        media-libs/alsa-topology-conf-1.2.5.1-r1::gentoo [1.2.5.1::gentoo] USE="-verify-sig%" 12 KiB  Total: 49 packages (18 upgrades, 1 new, 30 reinstalls), Size of downloads: 3423374 KiB  The following keyword changes are necessary to proceed:  (see "package.accept_keywords" in the portage(5) man page for more details) # required by @__auto_slot_operator_replace_installed__ (argument) =dev-libs/icu-78.2 ~amd64  Would you like to add these changes to your config files? [Yes/No]   Autounmask changes successfully written. ... done! Dependency resolution took 99.02 s (backtrack: 2/20).  [nomerge       ] app-crypt/veracrypt-1.26.20::gentoo  USE="X asm -doc" CPU_FLAGS_X86="sse2 sse4_1 ssse3"  [ebuild     U  ]  sys-apps/pcsc-lite-2.4.0-r1::gentoo [2.3.3::gentoo] USE="(policykit) systemd udev -embedded -libusb (-selinux)" ABI_X86="(64) -32 (-x32)" PYTHON_SINGLE_TARGET="python3_13 -python3_11 -python3_12" 207 KiB [nomerge       ] app-i18n/mozc-2.32.5994.102::gentoo  USE="fcitx5 gui ibus -debug -emacs -renderer -savedconfig -test"  [ebuild     U  ]  app-i18n/fcitx-5.1.16:5::gentoo [5.1.14:5::gentoo] USE="X autostart emoji enchant keyboard server systemd wayland -doc -presage -test" 8189 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] net-libs/webkit-gtk-2.48.5-r411:4.1/0::gentoo  USE="X avif gstreamer introspection jpegxl jumbo-build lcms pdf (seccomp) spell systemd wayland (-aqua) -examples -gamepad -keyring" 43098 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] media-plugins/frei0r-plugins-2.4.1-r1::gentoo  USE="facedetect scale0tilt -doc" ABI_X86="(64) -32 (-x32)" 914 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] kde-plasma/kdeplasma-addons-6.5.4:6::gentoo  USE="alternate-calendar handbook -debug -share -webengine" 1072 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] dev-tex/bibtexu-3.72_p20240311::gentoo  USE="-doc -source" 68497 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] app-text/gspell-1.14.0-r1:0/3::gentoo  USE="introspection vala -gtk-doc -test" 114 KiB [ebuild     U ~] www-client/firefox-147.0:rapid::gentoo [146.0.1:rapid::gentoo] USE="X clang dbus gmp-autoupdate hwaccel jumbo-build openh264 pgo pulseaudio system-av1 system-harfbuzz system-icu system-jpeg system-libevent system-libvpx system-pipewire system-png system-webp telemetry wayland -debug -eme-free -gnome-shell -hardened -jack (-jpegxl) -libproxy (-selinux) -sndio -test (-valgrind) -wasm-sandbox -wifi" L10N="-ach -af -an -ar -ast -az -be -bg -bn -br -bs -ca -ca-valencia -cak -cs -cy -da -de -dsb -el -en-CA -en-GB -eo -es-AR -es-CL -es-ES -es-MX -et -eu -fa -ff -fi -fr -fur -fy -ga -gd -gl -gn -gu -he -hi -hr -hsb -hu -hy -ia -id -is -it -ja -ka -kab -kk -km -kn -ko -lij -lt -lv -mk -mr -ms -my -nb -ne -nl -nn -oc -pa -pl -pt-BR -pt-PT -rm -ro -ru -sc -sco -si -sk -skr -sl -son -sq -sr -sv -szl -ta -te -th -tl -tr -trs -uk -ur -uz -vi -xh -zh-CN -zh-TW" LLVM_SLOT="21 -19 -20" 643878 KiB [ebuild     U  ] net-vpn/openvpn-2.6.17-r1::gentoo [2.6.14::gentoo] USE="lz4 lzo openssl pam plugins systemd -dco -down-root -examples -inotify -iproute2 -mbedtls -pkcs11 (-selinux) -test" 1889 KiB [ebuild     U ~] mail-client/thunderbird-147.0:0/stable::gentoo [146.0.1:0/stable::gentoo] USE="X clang hwaccel pulseaudio system-av1 system-harfbuzz system-jpeg system-libevent system-librnp system-libvpx system-pipewire system-png system-webp wayland -debug -eme-free -hardened -jack -libproxy (-pgo) (-selinux) -sndio (-system-icu) -wifi" L10N="-af -ar -ast -be -bg -br -ca -cak -cs -cy -da -de -dsb -el -en-CA -en-GB -es-AR -es-ES -es-MX -et -eu -fi -fr -fy -ga -gd -gl -he -hr -hsb -hu -id -is -it -ja -ka -kab -kk -ko -lt -lv -ms -nb -nl -nn -pa -pl -pt-BR -pt-PT -rm -ro -ru -sk -sl -sq -sr -sv -th -tr -uk -uz -vi -zh-CN -zh-TW" LLVM_SLOT="21 -19 -20" 761984 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] kde-plasma/spectacle-6.5.4-r1:6::gentoo  USE="handbook -debug -share -test" 0 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] kde-apps/konsole-25.08.3:6::gentoo  USE="X handbook -debug -test" 1807 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] app-office/libreoffice-25.2.7.2-r1::gentoo  USE="bluetooth branding cups dbus gtk3 kde mariadb qt6 vulkan -accessibility -base (-coinmp) -custom-cflags -debug -eds -googledrive -gstreamer -gtk4 -java -ldap -odk -pdfimport -postgres -test -valgrind" LIBREOFFICE_EXTENSIONS="-nlpsolver -scripting-beanshell -scripting-javascript -wiki-publisher" PYTHON_SINGLE_TARGET="python3_13 -python3_11 -python3_12" 354392 KiB [nomerge       ] x11-base/xorg-server-21.1.20:0/21.1.20::gentoo  USE="systemd udev xorg xvfb -debug (-elogind) -minimal (-selinux) -suid -test -unwind -xcsecurity -xephyr -xnest"  [nomerge       ]  x11-base/xorg-drivers-21.1-r2::gentoo  INPUT_DEVICES="libinput synaptics -elographics -evdev -joystick -vmmouse -void -wacom" VIDEO_CARDS="intel nvidia -amdgpu -ast -dummy -fbdev (-freedreno) (-geode) -i915 -mga -nouveau (-omap) -qxl -r128 -radeon -radeonsi -siliconmotion (-tegra) (-vc4) -vesa (-via) (-virtualbox) -vmware"  [ebuild     U ~]   x11-drivers/nvidia-drivers-590.48.01-r1:0/590::gentoo [590.48.01:0/590::gentoo] USE="X dist-kernel kernel-open%* modules static-libs strip tools wayland -modules-compress -modules-sign -persistenced -powerd" ABI_X86="32 (64)" 0 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] kde-plasma/plasma-workspace-6.5.4-r1:6::gentoo  USE="X fontconfig handbook ksysguard (policykit) screencast semantic-desktop systemd wallpaper-metadata -appstream -debug -networkmanager -telemetry -test" 0 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] app-text/texlive-core-2024-r1::gentoo  USE="X cjk luajittex xetex -doc -source -tk -xindy" 4841 KiB [ebuild  r  U  ] media-libs/opencv-4.12.0-r1:0/4.12.0::gentoo [4.11.0-r1:0/4.11.0::gentoo] USE="avif contrib contribdnn eigen features2d ffmpeg gif jpeg opengl openmp png qt6 tiff truetype vulkan wayland webp -atlas (-contribcvv) -contribfreetype (-contribhdf) (-contribovis) (-contribsfm) (-contribxfeatures2d) (-cuda) (-cudnn) -debug -doc -examples -gdal (-gflags) (-glog) -gphoto2 -gstreamer -gtk3 -ieee1394 -jasper -java -jpeg2k -lapack (-mkl) -non-free -opencl -opencvapps -openexr -openni -openni2 -python -quirc -spng -tbb (-tesseract) -test -testprograms -v4l -vaapi (-vtk) -wechat-qrcode% -xine (-dnnsamples%)" ABI_X86="(64) -32 (-x32)" CPU_FLAGS_X86="avx avx2 f16c fma3 popcnt sse sse2 sse3 sse4_1 sse4_2 ssse3 -avx512_4fmaps -avx512_4vnniw -avx512_bitalg -avx512_vbmi2 -avx512_vnni -avx512_vpopcntdq -avx512bw -avx512cd -avx512dq -avx512er -avx512f -avx512ifma -avx512pf -avx512vbmi -avx512vl" PYTHON_TARGETS="python3_13 -python3_11 -python3_12" VIDEO_CARDS="intel" 209389 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] dev-qt/qtwebengine-6.10.1:6/6.10.1::gentoo  USE="alsa jumbo-build opengl pdfium pulseaudio qml screencast system-icu vulkan widgets -accessibility -bindist -custom-cflags -designer -geolocation -kerberos -test -vaapi -webdriver" 860505 KiB [nomerge       ] kde-plasma/plasma-workspace-6.5.4-r1:6::gentoo  USE="X fontconfig handbook ksysguard (policykit) screencast semantic-desktop systemd wallpaper-metadata -appstream -debug -networkmanager -telemetry -test"  [nomerge       ]  dev-libs/kirigami-addons-1.10.0:6::gentoo  USE="-debug -test"  [ebuild     U  ]   dev-qt/qtmultimedia-6.10.1-r1:6/6.10.1::gentoo [6.10.1:6/6.10.1::gentoo] USE="X alsa dbus ffmpeg opengl pipewire pulseaudio qml vulkan wayland -custom-cflags -eglfs -gstreamer -test -v4l -vaapi" 9691 KiB [ebuild  rR    ]  dev-qt/qt5compat-6.10.1:6/6.10.1::gentoo  USE="gui icu qml -custom-cflags -test" 14273 KiB [ebuild     U  ]   dev-qt/qtdeclarative-6.10.1-r2:6/6.10.1::gentoo [6.10.1-r1:6/6.10.1::gentoo] USE="jit network opengl sql ssl svg vulkan widgets -accessibility -custom-cflags -qmlls" 36673 KiB [ebuild  rR    ]    dev-qt/qtbase-6.10.1:6/6.10.1::gentoo  USE="X concurrent cups dbus gtk gui icu libinput libproxy mysql network nls opengl sql sqlite ssl udev vulkan wayland widgets xml (zstd) -accessibility -brotli -custom-cflags -eglfs -evdev -gles2-only -gssapi -journald -oci8 -odbc -postgres -renderdoc -sctp -syslog -test -tslib" 49058 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] dev-libs/libical-3.0.20-r2:0/3::gentoo  USE="glib introspection -doc -examples -static-libs -test -vala" 952 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] media-libs/harfbuzz-12.2.0:0/6.0.0::gentoo  USE="cairo glib graphite icu introspection truetype -debug -doc -experimental -test" ABI_X86="32 (64) (-x32)" 17795 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] dev-qt/qtcore-5.15.18:5/5.15.18::gentoo  USE="icu -debug -old-kernel -test" 50734 KiB [nomerge       ] sys-kernel/installkernel-63::gentoo  USE="dracut systemd systemd-boot -efistub -grub -refind -ugrd -uki -ukify"  [ebuild     U  ]  sys-kernel/dracut-108-r5::gentoo [108-r4::gentoo] USE="systemd%* -debug -dracut-cpio (-selinux) -test" 0 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] media-libs/raptor-2.0.16-r1:2::gentoo  USE="-debug -json -static-libs" ABI_X86="(64) -32 (-x32)" 1710 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] net-libs/nodejs-22.13.1:0/22::gentoo  USE="icu npm snapshot ssl system-icu system-ssl -corepack -debug -doc -inspector (-lto) -pax-kernel -test" CPU_FLAGS_X86="sse2" 46916 KiB [nomerge       ] sci-libs/libqalculate-5.8.2:0/23.3::gentoo  USE="curl hardened icu readline -gnuplot -test"  [nomerge       ]  dev-build/libtool-2.5.4:2::gentoo  USE="-vanilla"  [nomerge       ]   dev-build/automake-1.18.1:1.18::gentoo  USE="-test -verify-sig"  [nomerge       ]    dev-lang/perl-5.42.0-r1:0/5.42::gentoo  USE="gdbm -berkdb -doc -minimal" PERL_FEATURES="(-debug) -ithreads -quadmath"  [nomerge       ]     app-admin/perl-cleaner-2.31-r2::gentoo  USE="-pkgcore"  [nomerge       ]      sys-apps/portage-3.0.72-r1::gentoo  USE="(ipc) native-extensions rsync-verify xattr -apidoc -build -doc -gentoo-dev (-selinux) -test" PYTHON_TARGETS="python3_13 -python3_12 -python3_14"  [nomerge       ]       app-alternatives/gpg-1-r3::gentoo  USE="nls reference ssl -freepg -sequoia"  [nomerge       ]        app-crypt/gnupg-2.5.16::gentoo  USE="alternatives bzip2 nls readline smartcard ssl tofu usb -doc -ldap (-selinux) -test -tools -tpm -user-socket (-verify-sig) -wks-server"  [nomerge       ]         app-crypt/pinentry-1.3.2-r1::gentoo  USE="X gtk ncurses qt6 wayland -caps -efl -emacs -keyring (-verify-sig)"  [nomerge       ]          gnome-base/gnome-keyring-48.0-r1::gentoo  USE="pam ssh-agent systemd -caps (-selinux) -test"  [nomerge       ]           app-crypt/gcr-3.41.2-r2:0/1::gentoo  USE="X gtk introspection systemd vala wayland -gtk-doc -test"  [nomerge       ]            x11-libs/gtk+-3.24.51:3::gentoo  USE="X cups introspection wayland (-aqua) -broadway -cloudproviders -colord -examples -gtk-doc -sysprof -test -vim-syntax -xinerama" ABI_X86="32 (64) (-x32)"  [nomerge       ]             net-print/cups-2.4.14-r1::gentoo  USE="X acl dbus pam systemd usb -debug -kerberos -openssl (-selinux) -static-libs -test -xinetd -zeroconf" ABI_X86="32 (64) (-x32)"  [nomerge       ]              x11-misc/xdg-utils-1.2.1-r9::gentoo  USE="X dbus plasma -doc -gnome -perl"  [nomerge       ]               kde-plasma/kde-cli-tools-6.5.4:6::gentoo  USE="X -debug -kdesu"  [nomerge       ]                kde-frameworks/kio-6.20.0:6/6.20::gentoo  USE="X acl handbook kwallet wayland -debug -designer -test"  [nomerge       ]                 kde-frameworks/solid-6.20.0:6/6.20::gentoo  USE="-debug -ios -test"  [nomerge       ]                  sys-fs/udisks-2.10.2-r1:2::gentoo  USE="acl daemon introspection nls systemd -debug (-elogind) -lvm (-selinux)"  [nomerge       ]                   sys-auth/polkit-126-r2::gentoo  USE="gtk introspection kde nls pam systemd -examples (-selinux) -test"  [ebuild     U  ]                    sys-auth/pambase-20251104-r1::gentoo [20251104::gentoo] USE="nullok passwdqc systemd yescrypt* -caps -debug (-elogind) -gnome-keyring -homed -minimal -mktemp -pam_krb5 (-pam_ssh) -pwhistory -pwquality -securetty (-selinux) -sha512* -sssd" 5 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] sci-libs/libqalculate-5.8.2:0/23.3::gentoo  USE="curl hardened icu readline -gnuplot -test" 2316 KiB [ebuild     U  ] sys-apps/systemd-258.3:0/2::gentoo [257.10:0/2::gentoo] USE="acl boot dns-over-tls gcrypt kernel-install kmod lz4 openssl pam pcre (policykit) resolvconf seccomp sysv-utils zstd -apparmor -audit -bpf -cgroup-hybrid -cryptsetup -curl -elfutils -fido2 -gnutls -homed -http -idn -importd -iptables -lzma -passwdqc% -pkcs11 -pwquality -qrcode -secureboot (-selinux) (-split-usr) -test -tpm -ukify -vanilla -xkb" ABI_X86="32 (64) (-x32)" PYTHON_SINGLE_TARGET="python3_13 -python3_11 -python3_12 -python3_14%" 16636 KiB [ebuild     U  ]  dev-lang/python-3.13.11:3.13::gentoo [3.13.9:3.13::gentoo] USE="ensurepip gdbm ncurses pgo readline sqlite ssl tk -bluetooth -debug -examples (-jit) -libedit -test -valgrind -verify-sig" LLVM_SLOT="18" 22181 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] dev-libs/re2-2024.07.02:0/11::gentoo  USE="icu -test" ABI_X86="(64) -32 (-x32)" 382 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] media-libs/libzmf-0.0.2-r1::gentoo  USE="-debug -doc -test -tools" 314 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] media-libs/libvisio-0.1.10::gentoo  USE="-doc -test -tools" 1995 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] media-libs/libcdr-0.1.8::gentoo  USE="-doc -test" 612 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] dev-libs/xerces-c-3.3.0:0/3.3::gentoo  USE="iconv icu -curl -doc -examples -static-libs -test -threads" CPU_FLAGS_X86="sse2" 4211 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] app-text/libqxp-0.0.2::gentoo  USE="-debug -doc -test -tools" 334 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] app-text/libmspub-0.1.4::gentoo  USE="-doc -static-libs" 369 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] app-text/libebook-0.1.3-r4::gentoo  USE="-doc -test -tools" 407 KiB [ebuild  rR    ]  dev-libs/boost-1.88.0-r1:0/1.88.0::gentoo  USE="bzip2 context icu nls stacktrace zlib -debug -doc -lzma -mpi -numpy -python -test -test-full -tools -zstd" ABI_X86="(64) -32 (-x32)" PYTHON_TARGETS="python3_13 -python3_11 -python3_12 -python3_14%" 140522 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] dev-db/sqlite-3.50.4:3::gentoo  USE="icu readline -debug -doc -secure-delete -static-libs -tcl -test -tools" ABI_X86="(64) -32 (-x32)" 14057 KiB [ebuild  rR    ] dev-libs/libxml2-2.15.1:2/16::gentoo  USE="icu readline -doc -python -static-libs -test" ABI_X86="32 (64) (-x32)" PYTHON_TARGETS="python3_13 -python3_11 -python3_12 -python3_14" 1958 KiB [ebuild  r  U ~]  dev-libs/icu-78.2:0/78::gentoo [77.1:0/77::gentoo] USE="-debug -doc -examples -static-libs -test -verify-sig" ABI_X86="32 (64) (-x32)" 27316 KiB [nomerge       ] media-gfx/blender-4.4.3:4.4::gentoo  USE="X bullet color-management cycles cycles-bin-kernels embree ffmpeg fftw fluid gmp nanovdb nls oidn openexr opengl openmp openpgl opensubdiv openvdb pdf pipewire potrace pugixml pulseaudio sdl sndfile tbb tiff truetype vulkan wayland webp -alembic -collada (-cuda) -debug -doc -gnome (-hip) (-hiprt) -jack -jemalloc -jpeg2k -man -ndof -openal -optix -osl -renderdoc -test -valgrind" LLVM_SLOT="19 -18" PYTHON_SINGLE_TARGET="python3_13 -python3_11 -python3_12"  [nomerge       ]  media-libs/openexr-3.3.3:0/32::gentoo  USE="-doc -examples -large-stack -test -threads -utils" CPU_FLAGS_X86="avx"  [ebuild     U  ]   app-arch/libdeflate-1.25::gentoo [1.24::gentoo] USE="utils -test" ABI_X86="(64) -32 (-x32)" 193 KiB [nomerge       ] dev-qt/qtbase-6.10.1:6/6.10.1::gentoo  USE="X concurrent cups dbus gtk gui icu libinput libproxy mysql network nls opengl sql sqlite ssl udev vulkan wayland widgets xml (zstd) -accessibility -brotli -custom-cflags -eglfs -evdev -gles2-only -gssapi -journald -oci8 -odbc -postgres -renderdoc -sctp -syslog -test -tslib"  [ebuild     U  ]  dev-db/mysql-connector-c-8.0.41-r1:0/21::gentoo [8.0.41:0/21::gentoo] USE="-ldap -static-libs" ABI_X86="(64) -32 (-x32)" 0 KiB [nomerge       ] sci-libs/libqalculate-5.8.2:0/23.3::gentoo  USE="curl hardened icu readline -gnuplot -test"  [nomerge       ]  net-misc/curl-8.17.0-r1::gentoo  USE="adns alt-svc ftp hsts http2 http3 httpsrr imap openssl pop3 psl quic smtp ssl tftp websockets -brotli -debug (-ech) -gnutls -gopher -idn -kerberos -ldap -mbedtls -rtmp (-rustls) -samba -sasl-scram -ssh -static-libs -telnet -test -verify-sig -zstd" ABI_X86="(64) -32 (-x32)" CURL_QUIC="openssl -ngtcp2" CURL_SSL="openssl -gnutls -mbedtls (-rustls)"  [ebuild     U  ]   net-dns/c-ares-1.34.6:0/2::gentoo [1.34.5:0/2::gentoo] USE="-static-libs -test -verify-sig" ABI_X86="(64) -32 (-x32)" 995 KiB [nomerge       ] sys-apps/systemd-258.3:0/2::gentoo [257.10:0/2::gentoo] USE="acl boot dns-over-tls gcrypt kernel-install kmod lz4 openssl pam pcre (policykit) resolvconf seccomp sysv-utils zstd -apparmor -audit -bpf -cgroup-hybrid -cryptsetup -curl -elfutils -fido2 -gnutls -homed -http -idn -importd -iptables -lzma -passwdqc% -pkcs11 -pwquality -qrcode -secureboot (-selinux) (-split-usr) -test -tpm -ukify -vanilla -xkb" ABI_X86="32 (64) (-x32)" PYTHON_SINGLE_TARGET="python3_13 -python3_11 -python3_12 -python3_14%"  [ebuild  N     ]  acct-group/clock-0::gentoo  0 KiB [nomerge       ] kde-plasma/plasma-meta-6.5.4:6::gentoo  USE="X bluetooth browser-integration crash-handler crypt cups display-manager firewall gtk kwallet pulseaudio qt5 sddm smart systemd thunderbolt wacom wallpapers webengine -accessibility -discover (-elogind) -flatpak -grub -networkmanager -oxygen-theme -plymouth -rdp -sdk -unsupported"  [nomerge       ]  kde-plasma/kde-cli-tools-6.5.4:6::gentoo  USE="X -debug -kdesu"  [nomerge       ]   kde-frameworks/kcmutils-6.20.0:6/6.20::gentoo  USE="-debug -test"  [nomerge       ]    kde-frameworks/kio-6.20.0:6/6.20::gentoo  USE="X acl handbook kwallet wayland -debug -designer -test"  [nomerge       ]     kde-frameworks/knotifications-6.20.0:6/6.20::gentoo  USE="-debug"  [nomerge       ]      media-libs/libcanberra-0.30-r8::gentoo  USE="alsa pulseaudio udev -gstreamer -oss -tdb" ABI_X86="(64) -32 (-x32)"  [nomerge       ]       media-libs/alsa-lib-1.2.14::gentoo  USE="-debug -doc -python" ABI_X86="32 (64) (-x32)" PYTHON_SINGLE_TARGET="python3_13 -python3_11 -python3_12"  [ebuild     U  ]        media-libs/alsa-topology-conf-1.2.5.1-r1::gentoo [1.2.5.1::gentoo] USE="-verify-sig%" 12 KiB  Total: 49 packages (18 upgrades, 1 new, 30 reinstalls), Size of downloads: 3423374 KiB  The following packages are causing rebuilds:    (dev-libs/icu-78.2:0/78::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge) causes rebuilds for:     (dev-db/sqlite-3.50.4:3/3::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)     (dev-qt/qtbase-6.10.1:6/6.10.1::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)     (dev-libs/libxml2-2.15.1:2/16::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)     (net-libs/nodejs-22.13.1:0/22::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)     (kde-plasma/plasma-workspace-6.5.4-r1:6/6::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)     (media-libs/harfbuzz-12.2.0:0/6.0.0::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)     (dev-qt/qtcore-5.15.18:5/5.15.18::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)     (sci-libs/libqalculate-5.8.2:0/23.3::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)     (dev-libs/re2-2024.07.02:0/11::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)     (kde-plasma/kdeplasma-addons-6.5.4:6/6::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)     (media-libs/raptor-2.0.16-r1:2/2::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)     (media-libs/libcdr-0.1.8:0/0::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)     (app-text/gspell-1.14.0-r1:0/3::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)     (dev-qt/qt5compat-6.10.1:6/6.10.1::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)     (dev-qt/qtwebengine-6.10.1:6/6.10.1::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)     (app-office/libreoffice-25.2.7.2-r1:0/0::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)     (dev-libs/xerces-c-3.3.0:0/3.3::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)     (media-libs/libzmf-0.0.2-r1:0/0::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)     (media-libs/libvisio-0.1.10:0/0::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)     (dev-tex/bibtexu-3.72_p20240311:0/0::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)     (app-text/texlive-core-2024-r1:0/0::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)     (app-text/libmspub-0.1.4:0/0::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)     (dev-libs/libical-3.0.20-r2:0/3::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)     (app-text/libqxp-0.0.2:0/0::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)     (app-text/libebook-0.1.3-r4:0/0::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)     (kde-apps/konsole-25.08.3:6/6::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)     (net-libs/webkit-gtk-2.48.5-r411:4.1/0::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)     (dev-libs/boost-1.88.0-r1:0/1.88.0::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)   (media-libs/opencv-4.12.0-r1:0/4.12.0::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge) causes rebuilds for:     (media-plugins/frei0r-plugins-2.4.1-r1:0/0::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)     (kde-plasma/spectacle-6.5.4-r1:6/6::gentoo, ebuild scheduled for merge)  Would you like to merge these packages? [Yes/No]You can see that it tells me to add the line=dev-libs/icu-78.2 ~amd64topackage.accept_keywords, but notice how it says that it is required by the strange@__auto_slot_operator_replace_installed__. If I runemergewithout--autounmask, we can see that it's the Firefox update that requires the newer version oficu, so shouldn't it say that it is required by Firefox instead?
Do you prefer binary packages? Do you prefer binary packages?u/Straight-Price-1601•2 mo. agoDo you prefer binary packages?DiscussionIt's a relative question, but i want ask it in that way;Would you enable binhost in your old pc with 2gb of ram, intel celeron cpu?Would you enable binhost in your daily machines with they're enough to compile fastly?
eselect repo asking for login eselect repo asking for loginu/blebbitchan•2 mo. agoeselect repo asking for loginSupport
Xwayland  not starting Xwayland  not startingu/AnythingAnyting•26 days agoXwayland  not startingSupportI just installed Gentoo this week and after  I installed Niri wm along side xwayland and it just doesn't start, I've checked with whereis and I get "xwayland:     " but when I tried qlist I get files for it? I'm puzzled .
Why do I have this app install Why do I have this app installu/Mama_iii•2 mo. agoWhy do I have this app installSupport
Going to dive in Going to dive inu/lord_mythus•2 mo. agoGoing to dive inDiscussionHello,Wednesday I'm gonna drive in. I'm going to try to install Gentoo. I haven't tried it since 2014, and failed back then. I have always hated that I next got it to run, but to be fair the hard drive was also failing which I didn't know at the time. Now days I have a pretty beefy computer and I want something that works well and that I can learn from.Anyways do y'all have any info you think I should know? I'll be following the handbook installing, and I'll be using the live image to do so. I've already decided that ext4 will probably be my best best and have planned my partions out: boot/efi, root, swap, and home. I've been reading the install guide at breaks and before bed and watching as much Gentoo stuff as I can. This time I must succeed.
Gentoo, startx causes blackscreen Gentoo, startx causes blackscreenu/Silakfighter•2 mo. agoGentoo, startx causes blackscreenSupporti tried so install x server with bspwm and all around it (dunst, picom, polybar, sxhkd ...) and blackscreen came, the i tried just with xterm in the .xinitrc and always blackscreen. dont get it yet, would appreciate some help
i686 musl rust i686 musl rustu/Mysterious_Tap8844•2 mo. agoi686 musl rustSupportHi,Maybe I am missing something or have not looked far enough, but I installed gentoo linux on musl (default/linux/x86/23.0/i686/musl) profile using corresponding stage3. I try to install the uv but found that anything related to rust are masked. Moreover, there is no rust toolchain installed. I can't bootstrap rust (at least through emerge from gentoo package).Is it that rust is not installed by default from this profile?  Like, not like I have rust-bin and can't bootstrap but I don't have anything at all.
Using `emerge --root` to build lightweight container images! Using `emerge --root` to build lightweight container images!u/oxamide96•2 mo. agoUsing `emerge --root` to build lightweight container images!StoryLately, I have been using `emerge --root` to create lightweight rootfs' , which I then feed into "buildah" to create lightweight distroless container images.Why? I like to highly customize container images to make development environments out of them without polluting the host system.I am posting to share with everyone that this works and is fun to fiddle with, and thanks to gentoo you have maximum customization.Does anyone have any tips or recommendations to try with this workflow? The only issue I have is even when I use a merged usr profile, I still have to manually run the merge usr script.
Gentoo for my thinkpad t540p :3 Gentoo for my thinkpad t540p :3u/Happy_Director_2077•2 mo. agoGentoo for my thinkpad t540p :3Screenshot
Gentoo is my new distro! Gentoo is my new distro!u/Ambitious-Educator59•2 mo. agoGentoo is my new distro!Screenshot
Can't figure out this error building lutris Can't figure out this error building lutrisu/Forward_Actuator_592•2 mo. agoCan't figure out this error building lutrisSupport
Graphical Interface? Graphical Interface?u/linux_user93•2 mo. agoGraphical Interface?Support
Screen sharing on Discord with wlroots Screen sharing on Discord with wlrootsu/Misa_Games65•24 days agoScreen sharing on Discord with wlrootsSupportHello newbie hereI would want to ask how can i screen share on wayland i use mangowc(wlroots) and i didn't managed to get screensharing working ive tried command that they recommend in gentoo wiki for swayexec --no-startup-id dbus-update-activation-environment --allbut that didn't do anything and my audio stopped working after that then i tried this:dbus-update-activation-environment --systemd WAYLAND_DISPLAY XDG_CURRENT_DESKTOP=wlrootsbut i have openrc as init so it didn't do anything too does someone have a solution?
How to go about "debloating" the kernel? How to go about "debloating" the kernel?u/ExcitementJunior4427•2 mo. agoHow to go about "debloating" the kernel?DiscussionI'm not completely new to manually configuring the kernel, but I had some issues getting my current PC build to boot so I initially resorted to using gentoo-kernel and have since switched to gentoo-sources with the same default configuration, which takes quite a lot of time to compile. What would be a safe but relatively efficient way to clean up the configuration from all of the drivers and features that I'm using? I'm hoping there might be a smarter method than going through all of the options one by one.
How do I migrate an existing install to systemd? How do I migrate an existing install to systemd?u/s-ro_mojosa•2 mo. agoHow do I migrate an existing install to systemd?SupportI have an existing Gentoo install on a VPS that I'd like to migrate from OpenRC to SystemD. How do I pull this off?I know I have to use eselect to change profiles, but after that the process gets muddy. Will have to resort to chrooting into the server from bootable media or can this process be done without it? Thanks!
Could you help me with an audio problem in Gentoo? Could you help me with an audio problem in Gentoo?u/tibiriano•2 mo. agoCould you help me with an audio problem in Gentoo?SupportPoderiam me ajudar com um problema de áudio no gentoo?r/linuxbrasil•2 mo. agoPoderiam me ajudar com um problema de áudio no gentoo?Olá. Decidi dar uma chance ao Gentoo recentemente, já que estava curioso sobre a forma de compilar pacotes do Gentoo, e queria testar o openrc. Eu estava conseguindo me virar com os problemas lendo a wiki e testando coisas. Configurei tudo, mas estava com um único problema: O obs não conseguia capturar a tela.  Depois de um tempo, configurando algumas flags do pipewire, e adicionando um comando pra inicializar o dbus corretamente (como estava na wiki), começou a funcionar. Porém percebi que um problema que eu havia tido no começo voltou. O áudio com fones bluetooth não está funcionando em jogos na steam e no heroic. A steam eu compilei como estava na wiki com o emerge, e adicionando o arquivo de dependências,  e o heroic tenho instalado como flatpak. Da primeira vez que tive esse problema, era por quê eu havia me esquecido de adicionar ao sway/config os execs do pipewire, pipewire-alsa, e wireplumber, após o fazer e reiniciar o sistema passou a funcionar. já cheguei a testar com o kernel pré compilado da distribuição, pra ter certeza se não era algo que eu pudesse ter retirado de lá, mas infelizmente não era. Vou adicionar os arquivos de configuração que tenho para facilitar a procura do que fiz de errado. Já peço desculpas, essa é minha primeira postagem sobre algo no reddit, e não sei se vou adicionar os arquivos da forma correta. E desdê já, muito obrigado a quem disponibilizar do tempo pra me ajudar com isso. Voltando agora, não faço a mínima ideia  de como adicionar arquivos de texto, ou se realmente é possível. Então vou adicionar aqui por escrito o conteúdo de cada arquivo.sway/config:# Default config for sway## Copy this to ~/.config/sway/config and edit it to your liking.## Read `man 5 sway` for a complete reference.### Variables## Logo key. Use Mod1 for Alt.set $mod Mod4# Home row direction keys, like vimset $left hset $down jset $up kset $right l# Your preferred terminal emulatorset $term alacritty# Your preferred application launcherset $menu rofi -show drunxwayland enable#AutoLaunch#PolkitAgentexec_always lxqt-policykit-agent#PolicyKitexec lxqt-policykit-agent#Dbusexec dbus-update-activation-environment --systemd WAYLAND_DISPLAY XDG_CURRENT_DESKTOP=sway#Programsexec_always autotiling -w 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9exec nwg-look -aexec_always blueman-applet#Controle de volumebindsym XF86AudioRaiseVolume exec wpctl set-volumeu/DEFAULT_AUDIO_SINK@ 5%+bindsym XF86AudioLowerVolume exec wpctl set-volumeu/DEFAULT_AUDIO_SINK@ 5%-bindsym XF86AudioMute exec wpctl set-muteu/DEFAULT_AUDIO_SINK@ toggle#audioexec pipewireexec pipewire-pulseexec wireplumberexec gentoo-pipewire-launcher restart &#exec dbus-run-session -- pipewire &#exec dbus-run-session -- pipewire-pulse &#exec dbus-run-session -- wireplumber &portage/package.usesway: gui-wm/sway X -tray wallpapers filecaps -man -swaybar swaynagxdg-desktop-portal: sys-apps/xdg-desktop-portal screencastxdg-desktop-portal-wlr: gui-libs/xdg-desktop-portal-wlr screencast# required by www-client/firefox-140.5.0::gentoo[system-png]# required by www-client/firefox (argument)>=media-libs/libpng-1.6.51 apng# required by www-client/firefox-140.5.0::gentoo[pgo,X]# required by www-client/firefox (argument)>=x11-base/xorg-server-21.1.20 xvfb# required by gnome-extra/nemo-6.4.5::gentoo# required by gnome-extra/nemo (argument)>=dev-libs/libxmlb-0.3.21 introspection# required by gnome-extra/nemo-6.4.5::gentoo# required by gnome-extra/nemo (argument)>=x11-libs/xapp-2.8.13 introspection# required by media-sound/pulseaudio-daemon-17.0-r1::gentoo[alsa,alsa-plugin]# required by media-sound/pulseaudio-daemon (argument)>=media-plugins/alsa-plugins-1.2.12 pulseaudiopipewire: media-video/pipewire -man screencast X bluetooth dbus -doc -echo-cancel elogind extra ffmpeg fftw flatpak gsettings gstreamer -ieee1394 jack-client -liblc3 -loudness -lv2 modemmanager pipewire-alsa readline roc -selinux sound-server ssl -system-service -systemd test v4l zeroconfobs-studio: media-video/obs-studio alsa -browser -decklink fdk jack lua mpegts nvec pipewire python qsv sndio speex test-input truetype v4l vlc wayland websocketflatpak: sys-apps/flatpak x doc introspection policykit seccomp test/portagemake.conf:# These settings were set by the catalyst build script that automatically# built this stage.# Please consult /usr/share/portage/config/make.conf.example for a more# detailed example.COMMON_FLAGS="-O2 -pipe"CFLAGS="${COMMON_FLAGS}"CXXFLAGS="${COMMON_FLAGS}"FCFLAGS="${COMMON_FLAGS}"FFLAGS="${COMMON_FLAGS}"ACCEPT_LICENSE="linux-fw-redistributable"MAKEOPTS="-j6 -l12"EMERGE_DEFAULT_OPTS="--jobs=12 --load-average=12"FEATURES="${FEATURES} buildpkg candy parallel-fetch"EMERGE_DEFAULT_OPTS="${EMERGE_DEFAULT_OPTS} --quiet-build --quiet-fail"CFLAGS="-march=alderlake -O2 -pipe"CXXFLAGS="${CFLAGS}"CFLAGS="${CFLAGS} -fstack-protector-strong -D_FORTIFY_SOURCE=2"LDFLAGS="-Wl,-O1,--sort-common,--as-needed,-z,relro,-z,now"PORTAGE_TMPDIR="/var/tmp"EMERGE_DEFAULT_OPTS="${EMERGE_DEFAULT_OPTS} --with-bdeps=y"L10N="pt-BR en"LINGUAS="pt_BR en"CFLAGS="${CFLAGS} -mtune=alderlake -mavx2 -mbmi2 -mfma"USE="X bluetooth wayland alsa dbus screencast gstreamer gles2"GENTOO_MIRRORS="https://distfiles.gentoo.orghttps://gentoo.osuosl.org"# NOTE: This stage was built with the bindist USE flag enabled# This sets the language of build output to English.# Please keep this setting intact when reporting bugs.LC_MESSAGES=C.UTF-86upvotes·4comments
I —depcleaned after an update, and now Gentoo won’t boot. I —depcleaned after an update, and now Gentoo won’t boot.u/Giggio417•2 mo. agoI —depcleaned after an update, and now Gentoo won’t boot.Support
Help setting up X? Help setting up X?u/Interesting_Salt7516•1 mo. agoHelp setting up X?SupportGentoo newbie here, trying to set up an old Thinkpad with Gentoo, installation went okay but I'm having trouble with launching programs like feh, issue being I can't start up an X server. After doing a startx I getFatal server error: (EE) xf86OpenConsole: Cannot open virtual console 1 (Permission denied)Any help?[EDIT 2] I fiddled around with the xinitrc file and now I can start an X server and run feh for example, however only if I'm in a folder with pictures to see, which is fair enough, my issue now is that I can't seem to close the program and use my computer without force shut downing it[EDIT] If trying to run startx as root I getThe XKEYBOARD keymap compiler (xbcomp) reports: >Warning: Could not resolve keysym (various names starting with XF86)
Arch user (btw) contemplating a Gentoo thinkpad for server maintenance~ Arch user (btw) contemplating a Gentoo thinkpad for server maintenance~u/Lynndroid21•2 mo. agoArch user (btw) contemplating a Gentoo thinkpad for server maintenance~DiscussionSo im an avid arch user, btw, and i absolutely love it. im currently in the process of homelabbing a cloud server thru arch. BUT, i hear a lot of hood fun about gentoo and i want a sturdy old school thinkpad (yes, the brick god of linux. THAT thinkpad) and i know everyone who owns one has gentoo on it bc its essentially a match made in digital heaven.i plan to run mangowc with plex as my streaming platform, anyone have any experience or tips they can share?
How to force the rebuild of slot-operator dependencies? How to force the rebuild of slot-operator dependencies?u/palapapa0201•2 mo. agoHow to force the rebuild of slot-operator dependencies?SupportAfter I have emerged a new kernel version, I accidentally deleted it usingeclean-kernel. I have tried re-emerging the kernel, but then realized that I can't log into KDE because the Nvidia drivers are missing from the new kernel's/lib/modules. I realized that this was because when I re-emerged the kernel, since I was rebuilding the same version, Portage didn't bother to rebuild those packages that have a slot-operator dependency on the kernel.Is there a way to automatically rebuild all packages that have a slot-operator dependency on a package?
How does Portage "forget" installed driver binaries? How does Portage "forget" installed driver binaries?u/palapapa0201•2 mo. agoHow does Portage "forget" installed driver binaries?SupportI have noticed that after I have upgraded my kernel version andnvidia-drivershave been automatically rebuilt, Portage seems to "forget" the files thatnvidia-drivershad installed under/lib/modules/<old-kernel-version>, as confirmed usingequery f. My understanding is that Portage, when installing a package, first installs it into a temporary directory and records what files this package will install, and then merge the files into your system. So is it that when a package is upgraded, that list of files that Portage has recorded gets overwritten by the new list of files that the new version of the package installs? But that can't be right, because then if a new package version doesn't install a file that it used to install, that file will become orphaned when the package is upgraded, and will never be deleted by--depclean. So does this mean that packages likenvidia-drivershave to manually make Portage forget the files they used to install for the old kernel version, so that the old kernel won't have its drivers removed when you run--depclean?
Finally, a PC for Gentoo! Finally, a PC for Gentoo!u/That-Secret-4987•2 mo. agoFinally, a PC for Gentoo!SupportHi everyone, I finally got a good PC to compile Gentoo, but I'd like some recommendations. I've never installed Gentoo Linux before, only distributions like Void Linux, Artix, Antix Core, or Alpine, so I'd love to know what you recommend. These are the components: Ryzen 5 8600G, RX 9070XT, 16GB of dual-channel RAM, and a 1TB Kingston NVMe SSD. The focus of this system will be optimization, minimalism, and performance. It will also be geared towards gaming, browsing, productivity, and everyday tasks. Currently, my workspace is DWM, but I don't know if DWL is recommended.
Looking for alternative Wayland Desktop setups Looking for alternative Wayland Desktop setupsu/SleepyGuyy•3 mo. agoLooking for alternative Wayland Desktop setupsDiscussionFull transparency I don't even use Gentoo. But wanted to ask the Gentoo community because it seems to be filled with very experimental and creative people. I'd like to try Gentoo some day.I am wondering if there are any other ways people get a nice stable Wayland-based desktop without using Gnome or Plasma.This week I've been trying out Niri, a tiling desktop focused on Wayland. While I like the design, I'm finding the tiling window manager is maybe breaking some games on my system. I know it shouldn't but it's just such a pain to troubleshoot and find answers. I think I'd like to step away from it and go back to a "normal" stacking desktop.I'm using Niri because I want to feel independent of the two massive DEs, Plasma and Gnome. I have issues with Gnome and have recently moved away from it. I like Plasma but I dont want to become reliant on it, I'd like to experiment with other DEs and other ways to get a DE setup and working.I know some people just setup a wondow manager and add their own task bar, like how people use Hyprland.I also like classic desktops like Trinity, but that doesn't support Wayland.Does the Gentoo community have any alternative setups for Wayland desktops? I know Plasma seems popular in this community but just wondering about alternatives.
Verifying old live media checksums Verifying old live media checksumsu/varsnef•25 days agoVerifying old live media checksumsSupportI can't seem to find any Official reference where the checksums were listed on a webpage for reference. Archive.org or cached pages. They were in files on mirrors that are no longer up or were pruned.I'd like to know if these are "legit" before uploading them to an archive website. There were grabbed from old neglected mirrors that were still running "unlisted" a few years ago so there isn't much trust in them...sha256sum install-x86-universal-2005.0.iso e2d0d58864b38e4c5659cfe2c03046e51c1b4394a92638789da332b361d8e2a7  sha256sum livecd-i686-installer-2006.1-rc.iso  ecfdda71dae0591e3209ade89fe4f8dd408e56bc045e85c27cbffb9376e3692b  sha256sum livecd-i686-installer-2007.0.iso 9b2d0d7c03305f04d0fa4cc1b49553cc5bbdd3c898d7427ef8dd7bbf2f229437Is that data just lost to time?
Help with firewalld plasma system settings Help with firewalld plasma system settingsu/diacid•3 mo. agoHelp with firewalld plasma system settingsSupportI have done everything I can think of, can´t find what's wrong.Gentoo auto installed ufw. Because it is a portable computer i use to admin my home server and stuff, I need firewall zones, and switched to firewalld. For whatever reason KDE system settings still thinks i have ufw... what should i do?Thanks in advance!Edit: as foru/Tax_Oddandu/qwesxadvice, updated use flags and `# emerge -auDNu/world` ... kernel configs for nvidia broke... after it gets troubleshot will report back.Report-back: Guys it worked!!!! Thanks thanks thanks!!!!!
I don't know what modules the Arch Linux kernel uses, what runs on it GBM, But it doesn't work on Gentoo. I don't know what modules the Arch Linux kernel uses, what runs on it GBM, But it doesn't work on Gentoo.u/Own-Honeydew6509•1 mo. agoI don't know what modules the Arch Linux kernel uses, what runs on it GBM, But it doesn't work on Gentoo.DiscussionI was wondering, I used Arch Linux a lot, and when I installed the driver on my old 1050 Ti, Wayland ALWAYS worked. When I did the same in Gentoo, it didn't work. =) Does anyone know which modules the Arch kernel uses for this? I apologize for my incompetence. These are the exact modules that make it work through the protocol(I don't remember the exact name) GBM, because, let's say, everything works fine for me on Arch, but it doesn't work on Gentoo. This question has been bothering me for a long time, because all my friends with new cards are using Weyland without any problems. I used the kernel gentoo-kernel-dist 6.12.58. Forgive me in advance, because I'm not on Gentoo right now. If anyone knows, please answer. I'm really struggling with this.
Maybe it was worth it after all! Maybe it was worth it after all!u/Low_Ad_5090•3 mo. agoMaybe it was worth it after all!Screenshot
Cockpit Cockpitu/diacid•25 days agoCockpitScreenshotTried Open RC for the server... switched to systemd just because of this single package.... Oh Cockpit is soooo awesome!
MInecraft GLFW error 65542 & 65545 No GLXFBConfigs returned MInecraft GLFW error 65542 & 65545 No GLXFBConfigs returnedu/samosp•3 mo. agoMInecraft GLFW error 65542 & 65545 No GLXFBConfigs returnedSupportI am using hyprland and when I launch minecraft I get:GLFW error 65542: GLX: No GLXFBConfigs returnedGLFW error 65545: GLX: Failed to find a suitable GLXFBConfigany help is appreciated
Planning on switching to Gentoo and I have a few questions Planning on switching to Gentoo and I have a few questionsu/OkIntroduction2733•3 mo. agoPlanning on switching to Gentoo and I have a few questionsSupportRealistically how long do you think your average update time is? and how often do you update?Let's say I was browsing and I saw a program that I want to install, is there a way that i could make it be not take too long in compiling/downloading? (might be a dumb question)How stable is it? (Is there like a guide)Thanks in advancePS- I'm not bothered by the compile time honestly one of the reasons I'm interested in switching just want a general idea for how long an average update might take.
What are your weirdest/best kernel names? What are your weirdest/best kernel names?u/Bubbly_Extreme4986•26 days agoWhat are your weirdest/best kernel names?DiscussionThis is mine for the zen-kernel I compiled.
I have no doubt this would also work on Gentoo: I have no doubt this would also work on Gentoo:u/al2klimov•27 days agoI have no doubt this would also work on Gentoo:DiscussionYou struggle with anticheats? Hold my beer...r/NixOS•27 days agoYou struggle with anticheats? Hold my beer...... because I not only play my FLOSS games absolutely flawlessly on Linux (by the way). I also profile them with `perf top --sort dso` and, based on the latter, I even (automatically) re-compile them to squeeze everything of my CPU:{ pkgs, ... }:{nixpkgs.overlays = letnative = pkgs: pkg: pkg.override {stdenv = pkgs.withCFlags [ "-march=icelake-client" "-mtune=icelake-client" ] pkgs.stdenv;};in [(_: prev: {superTuxKart = native prev prev.superTuxKart;mesa = native prev prev.mesa; # libgallium})];}Isn't this beautiful?39upvotes·8comments
How to setup with multiple drives How to setup with multiple drivesu/Holmesy5696•3 mo. agoHow to setup with multiple drivesSupportSetting up Gentoo with my new laptop, main drive 256Gb and other drive 1tb, how can I set these up?
media-libs/libepoxy fails to emerge. media-libs/libepoxy fails to emerge.u/MrObsidian_•1 mo. agomedia-libs/libepoxy fails to emerge.Supportmedia-libs/libepoxy-9999 fails to emerge.>>> Failed to emerge media-libs/libepoxy-9999, Log file:  >>>  '/var/tmp/portage/media-libs/libepoxy-9999/temp/build.log'   * Messages for package media-libs/libepoxy-9999:   * ERROR: media-libs/libepoxy-9999::gentoo failed (prepare phase):  *   patch '-p1' '-f' '-g0' '--no-backup-if-mismatch' failed with '/var/tmp/portage/media-libs/libepoxy-9999/files/libepoxy-1.5.10-use-opengl.pc-without-x.patch'  * Call stack:  *               ebuild.sh, line  143:  Called src_prepare  *             environment, line 3866:  Called default  *      phase-functions.sh, line  912:  Called default_src_prepare  *      phase-functions.sh, line  990:  Called __eapi8_src_prepare  *        phase-helpers.sh, line  833:  Called eapply '--' '/var/tmp/portage/media-libs/libepoxy-9999/files/libepoxy-1.5.10-use-opengl.pc-without-x.patch'  *        phase-helpers.sh, line 1088:  Called __eapply_patch '' '/var/tmp/portage/media-libs/libepoxy-9999/files/libepoxy-1.5.10-use-opengl.pc-without-x.patch'  *        phase-helpers.sh, line 1019:  Called __helpers_die 'patch '-p1' '-f' '-g0' '--no-backup-if-mismatch' failed with '/var/tmp/portage/media-libs/libepoxy-9999/files/libepoxy-1.5.10-use-opengl.pc-without-x.patch''  *   isolated-functions.sh, line   91:  Called die  * The specific snippet of code:  *   die "$@"  * If you need support, post the output of `emerge --info '=media-libs/libepoxy-9999::gentoo'`,  * the complete build log and the output of `emerge -pqv '=media-libs/libepoxy-9999::gentoo'`.  * The complete build log is located at '/var/tmp/portage/media-libs/libepoxy-9999/temp/build.log'.  * The ebuild environment file is located at '/var/tmp/portage/media-libs/libepoxy-9999/temp/environment'.  * Working directory: '/var/tmp/portage/media-libs/libepoxy-9999/work/libepoxy-9999'  * S: '/var/tmp/portage/media-libs/libepoxy-9999/work/libepoxy-9999'
Gentoo + nix? Gentoo + nix?u/landonr99•3 mo. agoGentoo + nix?DiscussionI'm a NixOS user and I'm curious about using Gentoo with nix. Obviously doesn't give you the exact same power as NixOS does for using nix, but curious about blending portage and nix's capabilities together. Anyone using the nix package manager on their setup in addition to portage? If so, what do you use it for and why do you find it useful?I have installed a played around with Gentoo btw, I'm comfortable compiling from source and configuring a kernel, and I am familiar with portage's basic concepts like CFLAGS, masking, and ebuilds.
Gentoo on radxa rock 5t Gentoo on radxa rock 5tu/bloomingFemme•1 mo. agoGentoo on radxa rock 5tSupportI just  got out of the psych ward (beaten for being trans) after two months of being there and now I have a 32gb rock 5t and this crazy idea of installing gentoo on it because reasons....Now I want you to help me is this possible? I've already installed gentoo on my 7700x 128gb ram cpu, and my now sold tuf gaming fx505dy laptop.What problems may I find? From what I understand this kind of sbcs have the problem of having non upstreamable kernel patches so they get stuck to old versions....HELP!
chroot'ing chroot'ingu/KrUpTi0n•3 mo. agochroot'ingSupportchroot'ingr/freebsd•3 mo. agochroot'ingI was curious, I have my main Desktop with FreeBSD, Gentoo, and Windows (seperate partitions). I'm using Refind. Works very well. I was wondering, say if I have a issue with my Linux system (Gentoo), is there a way to boot into FreeBSD, and chroot into my Linux system to fix it?  I'd think this would be a cool/efficent ability for anyone else with a similiar setup as mine.  Figured since Linux and BSD are like 'First cousins', has anyone ever had a app/program/script for doing this?3upvotes·11comments
My Wi-Fi network doesnt show up My Wi-Fi network doesnt show upu/Evening_Breath3850•3 mo. agoMy Wi-Fi network doesnt show upSupport
nginx: upgrading from 1.26.3 to 1.29.3, fastcgi.conf file missing, php impacted nginx: upgrading from 1.26.3 to 1.29.3, fastcgi.conf file missing, php impactedu/hagar-dunor•3 mo. agonginx: upgrading from 1.26.3 to 1.29.3, fastcgi.conf file missing, php impactedSupportHi all,I noticed that the file /etc/nginx/fastcgi.conf gets deleted when upgrading from 1.26.3 to 1.29.3. PHP quite heavily depends on fastcgi.conf.Anything I'm missing?EDIT: solved, seehttps://bugs.gentoo.org/966799
Ebuild version bumps that need to happen. Ebuild version bumps that need to happen.u/Fun-Appearance3270•3 mo. agoEbuild version bumps that need to happen.DiscussionAudacious and audacious pluginsThey both work flawlessly, I've never had a crash and I'm using pipewire.Audacious can be bumped with only changing the version number to audacious-4.5.1.ebuildAudacious plugins would be audacious-plugins-4.5.1.ebuildHere's a few screensThis next one is not that important, I barely use it, but I did it anyway, Celluloid, just bump it tocelluloid-0.29.ebuildAnd hoping this might offend someone, here's a screen of celluloid running on KDE.
Error while compiling gentoo-sources Error while compiling gentoo-sourcesu/Roman_og•1 mo. agoError while compiling gentoo-sourcesSupportld.lld: error: invalid operand for inline asm constraint 'i' at line 2148855179CC      drivers/acpi/acpica/nsutils.oCC      drivers/acpi/processor_perflib.oCC      net/ipv4/af_inet.oCC      drivers/base/topology.omake[4]: *** [scripts/Makefile.build:503: fs/fuse/fuse.o] Error 1make[3]: *** [scripts/Makefile.build:544: fs/fuse] Error 2flags doas make -j12 LLVM=1 KCFLAGS="-O3 -march=native -pipe -fno-semantic-interposition -fno-plt"doas make CC=clang LD=ld.lld NM=llvm-nm AR=llvm-ar nconfigusing clang ThinLTOclang --versionclang version 21.1.8Target: x86_64-pc-linux-gnuThread model: posixInstalledDir: /usr/lib/llvm/21/binConfiguration file: /etc/clang/21/x86_64-pc-linux-gnu-clang.cfgsys-kernel/gentoo-sources-6.18.4 + experimental + symlink
It's getting cold outside better turn the heat on It's getting cold outside better turn the heat onu/Forward_Actuator_592•3 mo. agoIt's getting cold outside better turn the heat onDiscussion
Question about a dual boot Gentoo Arch Linux system Question about a dual boot Gentoo Arch Linux systemu/Mama_iii•3 mo. agoQuestion about a dual boot Gentoo Arch Linux systemDiscussionHello everyone, today I would like to set up a dual boot with Gentoo + Arch, but I need your advice. Here is how I’m planning to partition my 500 GB drive:/home shared between Gentoo and Arch: 150 GBGentoo /: 200 GBArch /: 150 GBI was thinking about using LVM because from what I saw, it makes resizing easier. Should I use it? What file system should I choose?Is sharing a /home partition a good idea?Here is some information about my setup:Bootloader: systemd-bootInit: systemdThanks for your help! :)
Please Check my Fstab (MBR System amd64) Please Check my Fstab (MBR System amd64)u/LastHornet6059•3 mo. agoPlease Check my Fstab (MBR System amd64)Support
The best thing to do while compiling a kernel The best thing to do while compiling a kernelu/Character_Mobile_160•3 mo. agoThe best thing to do while compiling a kernelMeme
Which distribution to choose? Which distribution to choose?u/suki-exe•3 mo. agoWhich distribution to choose?DiscussionHello community,Tell me I'm looking to join the gentoo community. I've always been on arch and I would like to see what gentoo offers if it's more optimal or not. Here is my config:Ryzen 7 7800X3D Rx7800XT 32GB ramTell me if it's good and if it's optimized for gentoo. My use is for all 3D, projects, arduino, gaming, desktop, video streaming. I have a connection of around 2Mb/s. Will it take a long time to install Gentoo and will packages like Firefox or KDE take a long time to install?Tell me thank you in advance.
Anything I should know? Anything I should know?u/-Krotik-•3 mo. agoAnything I should know?Discussionis there anything I should know besides reading the wiki?sorry for low effort post
Back on Gentoo after using Debian for ~5 months Back on Gentoo after using Debian for ~5 monthsu/jamesfarted09•3 mo. agoBack on Gentoo after using Debian for ~5 monthsScreenshot
Playing GOG games Playing GOG gamesu/Forward_Actuator_592•3 mo. agoPlaying GOG gamesDiscussionOn arch I solely use Lutris to play GOG games... How do you play your GOG games? I'm a new gentoo user and I assume there is a decent amount of people building their own wine prefixes and foregoing any launcher. What do you do?
Gentoo is my new os! Gentoo is my new os!u/Low_Ad_5090•3 mo. agoGentoo is my new os!Screenshot
In case anyone else runs into the dropbox UI/tray breaking In case anyone else runs into the dropbox UI/tray breakingu/stormdelta•3 mo. agoIn case anyone else runs into the dropbox UI/tray breakingTipThis broke awhile ago, finally got around to fixing it. I'm running KDE Plasma.Dropbox for whatever reason uses the wrong name for the appindicator library even if you have it installed, and this completely breaks both the tray indicator and the UI.Gentoo's dropbox ebuild implements a workaround already, but dropbox now sideloads updates into an isolated separate directory under HOME instead of the real install directory, breaking the workaround.You can't fix this permanently, but you can disable the updates from sideloading themselves so that it continues using the original directorypkill -lf dropbox pkill -lf dropboxd #BOTH of these are needed, even if instance2 doesn't exist! mkdir -p ~/.dropbox/instance1 mkdir -p ~/.dropbox/instance2 touch ~/.dropbox/instance1/host.dbx-disable-updates touch ~/.dropbox/instance2/host.dbx-disable-updates rm -rf ~/.dropbox-dist systemctl --user start app-dropbox@autostart.serviceEDIT: Even that wasn't enough apparently, as now dropbox has started aggressively trying to update itself again. I've blocked it for now by deleting~/.dropbox-distand replacing it with a read-only empty file.
Volume keys not working on laptop Volume keys not working on laptopu/Nathan-5807•3 mo. agoVolume keys not working on laptopSupportHello newbie here, I just installed Gentoo on a old Dell laptop not that long ago but I can't get the volume buttons to work, I am using pipewire with alsa and hyprland does anyone have a fix or a workaround I would like to have those keys if possible. I also installed Debian on it awhile ago and it had the same issue I'm assuming I am missing a package or some configuration somewhere.
PC crash due to iwlwifi PC crash due to iwlwifiu/deadlygaming11•3 mo. agoPC crash due to iwlwifiSupportHello there. Since I installed Gentoo, I have been having issues with iwl crashing my whole PC. Im not entirely sure what is causing it and it keeps happening even after Ive tried so many things. To give an overview of what I have done:- Ive done everything the wiki says about for iwl issues- I have fully deleted the iwl firmware files and reinstalled them- I dragged in the firmware files from the liveusbI have been trying different things for ages but I cant figure out the issue. The frequency seems to happen whenever I am doing anything that requires a lot of internet usage so I mainly have it when playing games or doing downloads. I have also found that it is unrecoverable once it starts and I have to forcefully restart or else the system is extremely sluggish.Here is a kernel log that I could get just before a crash:https://pastebin.com/j8QRRmam
Hot reloading DE components Hot reloading DE componentsu/JackmanH420•3 mo. agoHot reloading DE componentsSupportHi everyone, I've been using Gentoo for a few days now and am really enjoying it. One thing I've noticed though is that when I've done my first major update (the previous ones just updated a few random libraries) which included a mutter update, doing this from inside GNOME caused the desktop to become fully unresponsive, necessitating a hard reboot. After logging back in and random emerge --resume I quickly checked to see if there were any more GNOME components to be upgraded but mustn't have checked properly, as the same thing happened when GStreamer then updated.Is this expected behavior and if so should you always update DE components from a TTY? I'm a bit unsure because I never had a similar issue with Arch or Fedora, so I was wondering if it's something specific to how Portage handles updates.
Problem in installing Firefox Problem in installing Firefoxu/Fuzzy_Hearing_5146•3 mo. agoProblem in installing FirefoxDiscussion
Hyprland not working Hyprland not workingu/Maplefudgechocolate•3 mo. agoHyprland not workingSupportCan anybody point me towards a tutorial or page on how to install Hyprland properly? i feel like theirs so many things i need to install and settings to configure.
RAM upgrade! RAM upgrade!u/Own_Transition6793•3 mo. agoRAM upgrade!Story
Cannot launch dmenu on i3 Cannot launch dmenu on i3u/After_Commission1669•3 mo. agoCannot launch dmenu on i3Supportpowwow@localhost-powwow ~ $ localeLANG=ko_KR.utf8LC_CTYPE="ko_KR.UTF-8"LC_NUMERIC="ko_KR.UTF-8"LC_TIME="ko_KR.UTF-8"LC_COLLATE="ko_KR.UTF-8"LC_MONETARY="ko_KR.UTF-8"LC_MESSAGES="ko_KR.UTF-8"LC_PAPER="ko_KR.UTF-8"LC_NAME="ko_KR.UTF-8"LC_ADDRESS="ko_KR.UTF-8"LC_TELEPHONE="ko_KR.UTF-8"LC_MEASUREMENT="ko_KR.UTF-8"LC_IDENTIFICATION="ko_KR.UTF-8"LC_ALL=ko_KR.UTF-8powwow@localhost-powwow ~ $ dmenu_runpowwow@localhost-powwow ~ $ warning: no locale supportXOpenIM failed: could not open input device^CI used localedef and export LANG=ko_KR.UTF-8 dmenu_run to make dmenu runWhy i cannot launch dmenu?**I SOVLED this with```bashLANG=en_US.UTF-8 dmenu_run```
Gentoo em notebook Gentoo em notebooku/N3G4N8•3 mo. agoGentoo em notebookSupportWhich notebook configuration would Gentoo be too heavy to compile? Something like an ideapad gaming 3i with i5 11gen, 16 GB of RAM and 500 GB SSD
Chrooting into a network location Chrooting into a network locationu/diacid•3 mo. agoChrooting into a network locationDiscussionUnsure if I should change flair to support....Let's say I have two computers, let's be wild: a threadripper with 64 cores and a core 2 duo. I want to emerge in the core 2 duo. If I would share / into the network I could theoretically chroot into the dual core from the threadripper. Would the heavy lifting be done by the threadripper in this case?And in that case, I could theoretically do it via ssh from the dual core so I could run the threadripper headless...Also, can the same thing work if instead of an x86 core 2 duo I used an arm based raspberry pi?
Do you think using a binhost is less convenient than just compiling? Do you think using a binhost is less convenient than just compiling?u/Character_Mobile_160•3 mo. agoDo you think using a binhost is less convenient than just compiling?DiscussionIt is true that, in theory, using a binhost can save plenty of time by not having to compile, if you’re okay with the packager’s defaults. But in reality, it’s often that these packages may need to be compiled from source anyway when you end up getting a package that needs very specifc USE flags applied to those packages. Steam is a good example. It needs specific use flags for a few big packages, and those will need to be compiled from source anyway because of that. I’ve also had way more trouble trying to fix GPG errors than I ever had with setting up Gentoo in the traditional way. I had never used a binhost before and wanted to try it on a lower end laptop, and I spent so much time trying to get the packages to be signed properly. At first, I had some flags set, so I obviously was compiling some packages from source, but after a while I caved in and used —binpkg-respect-use=n on everything, and even so, many packages still needed to be compiled from source because other packages depended on then having specific modules built. This is not to say I think using a binhost is useless at all, but for a computer that is going to be an everyday desktop, it may be simpler to just do everything the normal way and compile everything overnight, which is what I always do.
Cant fix circular dependencies to install KDE plasma Cant fix circular dependencies to install KDE plasmau/Roger_manowar•3 mo. agoCant fix circular dependencies to install KDE plasmaSupportI was trying to install KDE and i was following the wiki page and it said to emerge the session tracker wich in my case is elogind but there were some circular dependencies errors with webp and tiff i tried fixing it by doing USE="-tiff" emerge -va1 media-libs/libwebp but it still failed. does someone know what should i do???
We're so ready to start launching rockets with Gentoo We're so ready to start launching rockets with Gentoou/Fuzzy_Hearing_5146•3 mo. agoWe're so ready to start launching rockets with GentooDiscussion
I'm trying out Blender 5.0, it's sorta out I'm trying out Blender 5.0, it's sorta outu/Fun-Appearance3270•3 mo. agoI'm trying out Blender 5.0, it's sorta outDiscussionI can't think of anyone using gentoo without a local overlay.  What do you do to get the most recent unapproved ebuilds?  I just head on over to gentoo packages, check out the commits, get to the .ebuild and copy the files individually, as soon as dependency issues come up I solve them manually. (like copying the files folder from the mainstream to my local)Hopefully this will come out soon on the mainstream repo, I think it's an important update.
What are the advantages to compiling the kernel vs dist kernel? What are the advantages to compiling the kernel vs dist kernel?u/jennymraow•3 mo. agoWhat are the advantages to compiling the kernel vs dist kernel?Discussiontitle
Seem to be missing some previews in dolphin on gentoo Seem to be missing some previews in dolphin on gentoou/SuperficialNightWolf•3 mo. agoSeem to be missing some previews in dolphin on gentooSupport
sync by stages? sync by stages?u/Illiander•3 mo. agosync by stages?SupportIs there a way to tellemerge --syncto sync to an intermediate date?I've got a neglected system (5 months without an update) and I'm wondering if it will be easier to update to a midpoint first so emerge isn't struggling as much?
Updating world returns "AssertionError: setcpv recursion detected", rebuilding portage does not. Updating world returns "AssertionError: setcpv recursion detected", rebuilding portage does not.u/Grim2021•3 mo. agoUpdating world returns "AssertionError: setcpv recursion detected", rebuilding portage does not.SupportFor the past few days I've received the aforementioned error by runnningemaint -a sync emerge -avuDN @worldLast I can remember is updating portage by itself with oneshot. I found this old forum post:https://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic-t-1052082.html?sid=6d172ee7c7ce57988d24b579bd043ec6but cleaning out package.use (moving it to a backup) did not work.The full output given is:These are the packages that would be merged, in order:  Calculating dependencies... done! Dependency resolution took 10.06 s.  Traceback (most recent call last):  File "/usr/lib/python-exec/python3.13/emerge", line 51, in main    retval = emerge_main()  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/main.py", line 1314, in emerge_main    return run_action(emerge_config)  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/actions.py", line 4114, in run_action    retval = action_build(emerge_config, spinner=spinner)  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/actions.py", line 416, in action_build    success, mydepgraph, favorites = backtrack_depgraph(                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^        settings, trees, myopts, myparams, myaction, myfiles, spinner        ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^    )    ^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 11852, in backtrack_depgraph    success, mydepgraph, favorites, backtracked, max_retries = _backtrack_depgraph(                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^        settings, trees, myopts, myparams, myaction, myfiles, spinner        ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^    )    ^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 11911, in _backtrack_depgraph    success, favorites = mydepgraph.select_files(myfiles)                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^^^^^^^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 4833, in select_files    return self._select_files(args)           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^^^^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 5279, in _select_files    return self._resolve(myfavorites)           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^^^^^^^^^^^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 5477, in _resolve    if not self._create_graph():           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 3079, in _create_graph    if not self._add_pkg_deps(dep, allow_unsatisfied=allow_unsatisfied):           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 4222, in _add_pkg_deps    if not self._add_pkg_dep_string(           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^        pkg, dep_root, dep_priority, dep_string, allow_unsatisfied        ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^    ):    ^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 4239, in _add_pkg_dep_string    return self._wrapped_add_pkg_dep_string(           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^        pkg, dep_root, dep_priority, dep_string, allow_unsatisfied        ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^    )    ^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 4343, in _wrapped_add_pkg_dep_string    for atom, child in self._minimize_children(                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^        pkg, dep_priority, root_config, selected_atoms[pkg]        ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^    ):    ^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 4587, in _minimize_children    dep_pkg, existing_node = self._select_package(                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^        root_config.root, atom, parent=parent        ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^    )    ^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 7046, in _select_pkg_highest_available    ret = self._select_pkg_highest_available_imp(        root, atom, onlydeps=onlydeps, parent=parent    )  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 7308, in _select_pkg_highest_available_imp    pkg, existing = self._wrapped_select_pkg_highest_available_imp(                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^        root, atom, onlydeps=onlydeps, parent=parent        ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^    )    ^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 7657, in _wrapped_select_pkg_highest_available_imp    for pkg in self._iter_match_pkgs(               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^        root_config,        ^^^^^^^^^^^^    ...<2 lines>...        onlydeps=onlydeps,        ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^    ):    ^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 6935, in _iter_match_pkgs_atom    pkg = self._pkg(        cpv,    ...<4 lines>...        myrepo=getattr(cpv, "repo", None),    )  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 8616, in _pkg    not self._pkg_visibility_check(pkg)        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^^^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/depgraph.py", line 7356, in _pkg_visibility_check    if pkg.visible:       ^^^^^^^^^^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/Package.py", line 225, in visible    self._visible = self._eval_visibility(self.masks)                                          ^^^^^^^^^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/Package.py", line 219, in masks    self._masks = self._eval_masks()                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/Package.py", line 464, in _eval_masks    missing_licenses = settings._getMissingLicenses(self.cpv, self._metadata)  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/portage/package/ebuild/config.py", line 2553, in _getMissingLicenses    metadata["USE"],    ~~~~~~~~^^^^^^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/Package.py", line 903, in __getitem__    v = self._pkg._init_use()  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/Package.py", line 704, in _init_use    use_str = self._get_pkgsettings()["PORTAGE_USE"]              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/Package.py", line 681, in _get_pkgsettings    pkgsettings.setcpv(self)    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^^^^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/portage/package/ebuild/config.py", line 1784, in wrapper    return f(self, *args, **kwargs)  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/portage/package/ebuild/config.py", line 1901, in setcpv    stable = self._isStable(cpv_slot) if hasattr(cpv_slot, "_metadata") else None             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^^^^^^^^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/portage/package/ebuild/config.py", line 2459, in _isStable    return self._keywords_manager.isStable(           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^        pkg,        ^^^^        self.get("ACCEPT_KEYWORDS", ""),        ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^        self.configdict["backupenv"].get("ACCEPT_KEYWORDS", ""),        ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^    )    ^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/portage/package/ebuild/_config/KeywordsManager.py", line 137, in isStable    unmaskgroups = self.getPKeywords(pkg, None, None, global_accept_keywords)  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/portage/package/ebuild/_config/KeywordsManager.py", line 349, in getPKeywords    pkg_accept_keywords = ordered_by_atom_specificity(pkgdict, cpv)  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/portage/package/ebuild/_config/helper.py", line 36, in ordered_by_atom_specificity    bestmatch = best_match_to_list(pkg, keys)  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/portage/dep/__init__.py", line 2415, in best_match_to_list    for x in match_to_list(mypkg, mylist):             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/portage/dep/__init__.py", line 2375, in match_to_list    if not (x in matches or matches_add(x)) and match_from_list(x, pkgs)                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^^^^^^^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/portage/dep/__init__.py", line 2702, in match_from_list    use = getattr(x, "use", None)  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/Package.py", line 676, in use    self._init_use()    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/Package.py", line 704, in _init_use    use_str = self._get_pkgsettings()["PORTAGE_USE"]              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/_emerge/Package.py", line 681, in _get_pkgsettings    pkgsettings.setcpv(self)    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^^^^^^  File "/usr/lib/python3.13/site-packages/portage/package/ebuild/config.py", line 1781, in wrapper    raise AssertionError("setcpv recursion detected") AssertionError: setcpv recursion detectedThanks for any help given!
How do i handle Appimages with missing Dependencies? How do i handle Appimages with missing Dependencies?u/domsch1988•3 mo. agoHow do i handle Appimages with missing Dependencies?SupportHey everyone. Fresh Gentoo user here. I had set up Gentoo in the past, but yesterday i took the plunge to throw it on my Main PC as a daily Distro.I'm running into a bit of an issue, that's not directly Gentoos fault, but i'd be interested how you'd solve it. I'm trying to run OrcaSlicer (Github). This primarily comes as an Appimage. Normally, an Appimage should contain everything it needs to run. In this case, it requires webkit2gtk Version 4 on the OS. This has been the same on Arch for me and seems to be a known issue that currently isn't being fixed.Problem now is, that Gentoo doesn't have webkit2gtk in that Version. I can only get Version 2. My current solution is to run their newish flatpak release, which works. But i'm really not keen on installing and maintaining flatpak just for that one Application.So, what can i do? Is the flatpak my best bet here, or are there other options?
Hyprland WM inside LXQT on Gentoo LInux Hyprland WM inside LXQT on Gentoo LInuxu/kidmad4ra•3 mo. agoHyprland WM inside LXQT on Gentoo LInuxScreenshot
Hardened Gentoo on a quad-booted T440p Hardened Gentoo on a quad-booted T440pu/Silent-Degree-6072•3 mo. agoHardened Gentoo on a quad-booted T440pScreenshot
Niri and pipewire on Gentoo Niri and pipewire on Gentoou/zarMarco•3 mo. agoNiri and pipewire on GentooSupportNiri and pipewire on Gentoor/niri•3 mo. agoNiri and pipewire on GentooBefore passing to obscure side, systemd eh eh, how can I set niri to use pipewire on gentoo? on niri config I've put spawn-at-startup "dbus-launch-session" "pipewire". Same command on hyprland or dwl goes2upvotes·4comments
Backlight issues Backlight issuesu/mayo551•3 mo. agoBacklight issuesSupportI have a Optimus laptop (amdgpu + nvidia) and it’s saying it can’t find the nvidia backlight when launching SDDM.I managed to fix this by enabling NVIDIA mode set in grub. Then I installed iptables and it stopped launching and returns to the same error.I then tried to launch Wayland+kde directly from terminal. It wouldn’t work.I went down a rabbit hole and found the error was related to dbus . Systemd shows dbus is running, but when I check it as a regular user it shows that it’s not running and the user can’t connect to it over the host (likely due to iptables).Tried to deselect iptables but it still won’t work.Suggestions? I will update this post with the actual errors when I’m home.
failed to start user.username failed to start on login failed to start user.username failed to start on loginu/Nathan-5807•3 mo. agofailed to start user.username failed to start on loginSupport
Portage backend for KDE Discover. Part 2 Overlay Manager is now live Portage backend for KDE Discover. Part 2 Overlay Manager is now liveu/Front-Buyer3534•3 mo. agoPortage backend for KDE Discover. Part 2 Overlay Manager is now liveDevelopmentBack with another update on my Portage backend for KDE Discover - and this one turned into a pretty big step forward.I’ve added afull overlay manager, fully controllable from inside Discover. You can now:View your installed overlaysAdd new onesRemove overlays you don’t needAll of thiswithout ever leaving DiscoverI've attached screenshots to show how the new UI looks in action.If you missed Part 1, it's here:https://www.reddit.com/r/Gentoo/comments/1oypyj5/i_shoved_portage_into_kde_discover_yes_really_15/Repo, installation guide, and TODO list are here:https://github.com/keklick1337/discover-portage-backendFeedback, ideas, and contributions are very welcome - especially regarding the UX for overlay management.ebuild available inhttps://github.com/msva/mva-overlayunder namekde-plasma/discover-portage-backend
Can't compile kernel with custom patch. Can't compile kernel with custom patch.u/Putrid-Challenge-274•3 mo. agoCan't compile kernel with custom patch.SupportI recently got a bluetooth module (Mercusys MA530) and it seems like the only way of making it work is patching "drivers/bluetooth/btusb.c", so I did, and it won't work. Rest of the config works fine. Emerge full log:https://pastebin.com/tXMDSbNp.  Output of emerge --info sys-kernel/gentoo-kernel:https://pastebin.com/G4iKVUBZ.   The patch I wanna do is:https://pastebin.com/ALrmhGQP.
I cant use capslock on the livecd while trying to install gentoo I cant use capslock on the livecd while trying to install gentoou/Roger_manowar•3 mo. agoI cant use capslock on the livecd while trying to install gentooSupportI was trying to install gentoo on my laptop but while trying to do wifi configuration my caps lock wasnt working, i have tried switching the keyboard layout to the right one but it still doesnt work, i have checked on the layout i use and the caps lock is on the same key that it should be (58) does anyone have an idea of what is going on???
The wiki is down. How often should I try to get it to load? The wiki is down. How often should I try to get it to load?u/rickmccombs•3 mo. agoThe wiki is down. How often should I try to get it to load?SupportThe wiki is down. How often should I try to get it to load? I saw an old post that suggested using the Wayback Machine, but I tried that and it says robots.txt says not to archive  it.
welp startx freezes my screen and no access to keyboard welp startx freezes my screen and no access to keyboardu/larr0t•3 mo. agowelp startx freezes my screen and no access to keyboardSupportI am not sure where exactly i went wrong. I am sorry for rant but i really need help. I am running gentoo natively on apple m2 through asahi linux kernel and i am running x11 with windowmaker. First I had some issues with syncing asahi overlay, then i fixed it by manually adding eselect repository add asahi with git, then enabled it, worked, aftec that i emerge --sync, then everything gets synced with return code 0 except gentoo, then i emaint sync -r gentoo, whigh works this time for some reason, then i do emerge --sync again. And then, I was trying to fix my audio because after a world update about 2 weeks ago, I had my pavucontrol tell me that it couldnt establish connection with pulseaudio, and that something was wrong with environment x11. turns out pulseaudio is unavailable anymore, so i had to use pipewire. I know my choices werent great, but I rebuilt pipewire with local Use flag sound-server, without updating system. Then I try checking with rc-service if pipewire is on, it said, pipewire doesnt exist. So it didnt recognize it as a server. Then I add, in the xinitrc, pipewire & and then restart /etc/init.d/dbus , because pavucontrol thought dbus wasnt active. then i restart windowmaker, and something horrendous happens, applications start doubling, wmsticky notes start popping up everywhere, then at some point it fitally let me touch the terminal and accepted keyboard so I restarted windowmaker, after which, i reboot, which for some reason, says, user.larr0t failed to start, then i write startx, and it shows me a frozen screen, an uninteractable mouse, keyboard, and everything is frozen. then i reboot back to virtual clt.  check Xauthority, shows me some kind of weird cookie with weird symbols. I saw in some forum said, try temporarily removing xinitrc and xauthority, so i remove, then some kind of weird symbols start showing up on my keyboard screen. i am guessisg memory got leaked, or something. how did that even happen.  Now i am trying to understand why does startx give me a frozen screen, where i have no way of interacting with my computer, unless i reboot it with the power button, then use the virtual clt.
Chroot update dual boot Chroot update dual bootu/diacid•3 mo. agoChroot update dual bootScreenshotLook how cool, updating Arch via Gentoo haha.I wonder if it is actually pointless to leave it there though...
Gdm doesn't work Gdm doesn't worku/Moist_Professional64•3 mo. agoGdm doesn't workSupport
Fix for crash on Arc Raiders Fix for crash on Arc Raidersu/t0ps0il•3 mo. agoFix for crash on Arc RaidersTipProblem:Arc Raiders crashes every 45 minutes to an hour.Solution:Increase the open file limit by appending the following to/etc/security/limits.conf* soft nofile 524288 * hard nofile 524288Then increase the maximum number of memory map areas a process can have by editing/etc/sysctl.confto have:vm.max_map_count=2147483642Finally, reboot (or runsysctl --system).Shout out toK1D77A on ProtonDBfor finding this solution.edit:I'm running Steam via Flatpak in case that matters.other details:AMD CPU & GPUDE: gnome 48WM: mutter (wayland)init: systemdedit2:K1D77A's suggestion forlimits.confhad a typo so I fixed that.Also updaed thevm.max_map_countto the recommendation from the Arch Wiki.
Some help guys in the fstab file Some help guys in the fstab fileu/Fuzzy_Hearing_5146•3 mo. agoSome help guys in the fstab fileDiscussion
It's me again. It's me again.u/Broad-Breakfast1903•3 mo. agoIt's me again.Discussion
Steam doesn't open and gives no console output Steam doesn't open and gives no console outputu/Character_Mobile_160•3 mo. agoSteam doesn't open and gives no console outputSupportYesterday steam suddenly stopped working after a logout.  I opened a game that I usually play, then I logged out for a bit, and when I logged back in Steam never opened again. I've tried launching it from the console, launching it without steamruntime, re-emerging steam-launcher without the steamruntime entirely. No matter what I do, it doesn't launch, and even steam --debug gives no output. Any time I attempt to start it from a console, I immediately get returned to the next bash prompt. I did see that the original steam-overlay repo was down, but the original one is still available on github
x86 (32 bit) Gentoo boot CD only recognizes 930MB on PC x86 (32 bit) Gentoo boot CD only recognizes 930MB on PCu/lushcurtains•3 mo. agox86 (32 bit) Gentoo boot CD only recognizes 930MB on PCSupportFor fun I am installing x86 Gentoo Linux on a Pentium III 933mhz, 256MB RAM PC.  To save days I am building it on a fast PC that has a Intel i9700K CPU 48GB RAM PC.  Of course being 32 bit only 4GB RAM would be recognized.  But on this PC only 930MB is recognized.  On my games PC In Virtualbox virtual machine using AMD X7950X3D CPU 4GB RAM is recognized.With only 930MB RAM recognized I have to set MAKEOPTS="-j1".  Because gcc compilation uses the most RAM.How can I get the i9700K PC to boot x86 Gentoo Linux and recognize the full 32bit 4GB RAM?
started the year on debian, ending it on gentoo started the year on debian, ending it on gentoou/Cronic12•3 mo. agostarted the year on debian, ending it on gentooScreenshot
RH124 System Administration 1 RH124 System Administration 1u/Realistic_Ease6037•1 day agoRH124 System Administration 1Hi all, do you have any book recommandation for RH124 System Administration 1 ?
Passed RHCSAv10 with perfect score! Passed RHCSAv10 with perfect score!u/Aromatic_Amoeba_8975•3 days agoPassed RHCSAv10 with perfect score!This is my second time doing the exam. I failed the first time because I accidentally left my first node in an un-ssh-able state, voiding that entire node. I learned from that mistake and did my retake one week later.The whole prep period was around 3 months, here's what I did:Sander Van Vugt's bookI had access to the RHCSAv9 book, so I used that as my main point of reference. It wasn't that hard discerning the v9 material from v10, I just ignored the containers section and studied flatpaks in like 20 minutes fromthis video.2. Practice mock examsThis is probably the most important thing, I had to practice until everything became muscle memory. There are a lot of valuable sample exams in Sander's book, but I also did the exams in Asghar Ghori's RHCSAv9 book which were more comprehensive and complex than Sander's imo.3. FlashcardsI used quizlet to create flashcards of the things that confused me the most. This was huge for burning weird syntax into my memory.It's also worth noting that taking a break mid-exam basically saved me. I misunderstood a bunch of questions which I was able to quickly correct after taking a breather and coming back with a fresh set of eyes.
CKA or Openshift Admin (EX280) ? CKA or Openshift Admin (EX280) ?u/isma2590•8 hr. agoCKA or Openshift Admin (EX280) ?Hey guys,I want to have your advice about this famous question about these 2 certs.The questions are :- which of these 2 certs gives the best chance of being recruited ?- which of these 2 certs gives the best salary ?(In European and asian market)
Just passed RHCE today Just passed RHCE todayu/thrumpanddump•20 days agoJust passed RHCE todayForgive me if this was the wrong place to post but I’m so psyched! Took my first attempt in October and failed miserably and got a 245 today. Had some technical issues with their image at first so it really raised my anxiety going into it. Any recommendations for a next cert to pursue?*** Editing to add what I did differently from the first exam***I mainly used RHLS for my path to studying the first time. Would redo the lab practices and until I felt I was pretty ready. Thought I read the questions enough and as I was going through the questions, realizing how I didn’t spend enough time on how to make j2 files for automation.Second time I was using Sander Van Vugt as well as RHLS and would practice each question topic for 3/4 times in a row until it was muscle memory. Really honed in on making sure my role formatting was perfect, j2 file templates were easy, knowing what to search in ansible [server] - m setup to find particular strings. The biggest issue I found from the first time was setting my control node up. It sounds stupid, but they have you set it up a little differently in RHLS so READ THE PROMPT THOROUGHLY because since I didn’t do that correctly the first time, it just created havoc for grading and my time on the exam. Feel free to dm me any questions and I’ll try to answer them without giving way any test information.
Salary for a Junior Openshift Administrator (OCP) Salary for a Junior Openshift Administrator (OCP)u/isma2590•1 day agoSalary for a Junior Openshift Administrator (OCP)Hey guys,In Europe or Switzerland (i know it’s not the same), what is the average salary for a Junior Openshift administrator i can expect ? i mean someone like me with Red Hat Openshift Administrator Certification passed during university years, but no work-experience in a company with openshift. Only Red Hat Linux OS work-experience for 2 years in a bank (work-study programm during a master degree).Thanks a lot for your answers
When even an open-source company forgets openness—my Red Hat interview experience When even an open-source company forgets openness—my Red Hat interview experienceu/saurabh1203•22 hr. agoWhen even an open-source company forgets openness—my Red Hat interview experienceI'm writing to express my feelings. To be honest, I'm disappointed.It has been more than two months since my Red Hat interview, and I have received no feedback. Someone from HR called me once, but I couldn't answer because I was somewhere in front of the manager. I called back within 10 minutes and have not received a response since. It's just silence.I understand that hiring takes time, and sometimes things get delayed. But when a company simply stops communicating, it feels extremely unfair. If a candidate did this with HR, everyone would call it "unprofessional." But when it happens the other way around, no one seems to mind. Isn't this a double standard?What hurts the most is that Red Hat is supposed to stand for open culture, respect, and collaboration. Ghosting doesn't really fit with those values. It raises the question of whether the "open organization" principles are carried through to the hiring process.Additionally, for roles requiring 3+ years of OpenStack experience... Come on. It's difficult to find someone with that specific background. You have people contributing to these open-source projects, doing real work that benefits the community; they may be a year short of your "ideal" experience, but they can easily bring more passion and long-term value than someone who has done it all before.So, yeah, I just wanted to get this out there. I still really respect Red Hat and the work it does for the open-source world, but I wish the hiring team treated candidates with the same openness and respect that Red Hat is known for.Sorry if this sounds bad, but you are one of the good companies I consider, and this is what happens when most people or organizations hurt someone's feelings.:(
RHCSA certification RHCSA certificationu/Pure-Personality-456•2 days agoRHCSA certificationPrepared almost for 2 weeks and gave my first ever certification exam - RHCSA.. scored around 130 marks is it good?I am thinking to take a retake soon i messed up in storage security part.  Any tips for the storage provlems.. like if disk has multiple partitions with volume groups and it threw error when i tried to create my own vg / lvm of size they mentioned that it was not available.. only 1024Kb or soemthing was there weird. Are we suppose to delete the exisiting ones first to make space or what? Cuz i cant use other disk.
Command-line Assistant Powered by RHEL Lightspeed Command-line Assistant Powered by RHEL Lightspeedu/waldirio•1 day agoCommand-line Assistant Powered by RHEL Lightspeed
Proposing r/redhat-certifications subreddit Proposing r/redhat-certifications subredditu/egoalter•1 mo. agoProposing r/redhat-certifications subredditI think it's about time we get a dedicated space for questions around Red Hat certifications. It would allow a pinned post stating "Do not talk about Fight Club" so everyone posting asking specific exam questions can be referred easily to the "why you cannot get an answer to that" question.It would leave this subreddit to handle questions about Red Hat, about it's products etc - and not drown in a sea of the same "why did I fail this exam" and similar questions.Personally I hit my limit months ago, and it's getting worse every day where the vast majority are posts about certifications and a good portion of them tease people to break their NDA.
Question on RHCE/EX294 and using the "fail" module Question on RHCE/EX294 and using the "fail" moduleu/Kiarton•2 days agoQuestion on RHCE/EX294 and using the "fail" moduleMaybe a stupid question, but my exam is next week and I wanted to ask if the grading of the exam takes into account whether the playbook reports as "failed" or "succeeded", for example (hypothetical question obviously):- Create an ext4 fs in /dev/sda1, if ext4 fs fails, try xfs- If sda does not exist, report "sda does not exist"In this case, lets say I use the module "fail", instead of debug to show this message if sda is not present.This would avoid having to use "when: "'sda' in ansible_devices" in every subsequent task, since we already know if there is no sda, we wont have an sda1 to format anyway...Would the grading be affected by this or am I overthinking it? Thanks!
Passed the RHCSA Passed the RHCSAu/ChronicMullah•4 days agoPassed the RHCSAhere are my takeaways> first attempt> practice practiceI can’t be the only one who struggled to deal with the massive lag. it’s extremely tough to work with their platform. unsure if my personal machine contributed towards it as well.lesson learnt and happy to answer any questions for the future takers.Edit: expansioni took the base objectives from RHEL & hammered on each topic as one broader topic- took it as a fun and learning experience rather than an exam/cramming task- i would set-up mocks on each stride using Gemini/ChatGPT >> you have to be careful using it because they all bloat massively and always go beyond the scope of the exam or normal human intelligence-challenges i faced mostly were technical in the exam. you just have to patiently work with the machine. >> read the question thoroughly before executing anything you will save time by not repeating executions. >>> don’t spend too much time on a thing which is taking longer than it should, come back. >>>> go for the low hanging fruits first
EX294 v10 EX294 v10u/Curufinwe562•2 days agoEX294 v10Has anyone done EX294 v10? I just signed up for it.I'm a long time Ansible user but information about what is new in v10 seems to be sparse or nonexistent. Maybe some Red Hat folks can provide more info.Thanks in advance.
Confused between RHCSA and CKA Confused between RHCSA and CKAu/Unlucky-Chapter2553•6 days agoConfused between RHCSA and CKAHey folks, need some advice on choosing between RHCSA and CKA.Background: DC Network SRE with 1.5 YOE at a FintechDaily hands-on with Cumulus Linux(nvidia switches), JunOS(juniper switches and fws),Automation using Ansible, and scripting using pythonMonitoring with telegraf/snmp, Prometheus & Grafana,Basic linux and docker experience (for setting up and troubleshooting internal tools running on onprem servers),Recently cleared JNCIA-JunOS certificationI aim to eventually shift to a more devops centric role, which cert would help me more? Keep in mind that we dont use k8s in our company, and all the servers and switches are ubuntu and debian based.
Hands On Learning/Labs? Hands On Learning/Labs?u/SadnessAndOreos•4 days agoHands On Learning/Labs?Hello! I am currently a Windows Server admin, but I am trying to familiarize myself with RHEL as the company I am working for is starting to move in that direction. I am wondering if anyone has any recommendations for some resources that provide hands on learning and labs for RHEL? I learn best with hands on learning, so having some labs or scenarios that I can work through would be great, rather than just reading commands and watching hours of videos. I have no problem standing up a VM to do everything on. I don’t mind paying for learning, so free or paid (if it’s worth it) options are on the table. Appreciate it!
Perfect score in RHCSA V10 Perfect score in RHCSA V10u/Distinct-Turnip-8361•13 days agoPerfect score in RHCSA V10Scored perfect 300/300 in rhcsa v10Congratulations -- you have earned the Red Hat Certified System Administrator certification.Performance on exam objectives:OBJECTIVE: SCORE     Understand and use essential tools: 100%     Manage software: 100%     Create simple shell scripts: 100%     Operate running systems: 100%     Configure local storage: 100%     Create and configure file systems: 100%     Deploy, configure and maintain systems: 100%     Manage basic networking: 100%     Manage users and groups: 100%     Manage security: 100%
SSH PROBLEM | HELP SSH PROBLEM | HELPu/medeasoulx•4 days agoSSH PROBLEM | HELPI have configured SSH with the following settings in thesshd_configfile:PubkeyAuthentication yesPasswordAuthentication noHowever, I am unable to connect using SSH keys generated withssh-keygen. I receive a “Permission denied” error.My goal is to allowonly themedeauserto connect via SSH usingkey-based authentication only. I have added this user toAllowUsers, but the connection still fails.I do not want to remove or change thePasswordAuthentication nosetting.How can I fix this issue and properly configure SSH to allow only themedeauser to log in using SSH keys?
EX 294 final brush up EX 294 final brush upu/emkay25•4 days agoEX 294 final brush upHello everyone,I am looking to take the RHCE (EX294) in the following weeks. For those who have taken it, what prep material did you use?Would the Ozzoy bits helpful for final brush up? (https://youtu.be/nxft8CyuJIw?si=i0j1XB_vvicQv0v4this one specifically). Please share any tips, thanks.
RHCE pass ......... finally. RHCE pass ......... finally.u/Least_Toe_8980•15 days agoRHCE pass ......... finally.Hey folks,I passed the RHCEV9 on the 22nd of jan, finally.This whole can of worms began on the beginning of the month, when i Initially planned on giving the exam on the 9th. A whole slew of payment problems (bank side not RH's fault, however RH support was dismally slow.) delayed the whole thing and finally got sorted out on the 15th of Jan. I had made a post about the issue on this sub before, you can find ithere.Suggestions/help for anyone else still preparing for the exam :A while agou/Hympingboymade a post that you can findhereCheck out their takeaways for sure, they helped me a bunch. But to add to what they have said.PLEASE DO NOT TAKE THE EXAM REMOTELYAfter the slew of payment issues was finally resolved, I booked the remote exam for the 20th of Jan, only to fail MISERABLY.The exam was absolutely horrifying.Imagine you are typing out a yaml file with the content "abdc", the exam environment will randomly lag out and keep doing so, If it lags out on the letter "c" then it will be typed out as "abccccccccccccccccccd"Now you can imagine what happens when it lags out on the backspace key. The lag made me panic and make some mistakes and i failed terribly, even when i was able to solve all the practice exams on the planet in under two hours.PLEASE TAKE THE EXAM AT A TESTING CENTERI booked my retake at a testing center (22nd Jan now) which was far but not too far thankfully.And guess what, I finished the four hour exam in two hours and passed with the score of 276/300Preparation resource recommendations:- Ozzoy bits (great guidance and questions, often incomplete or wrong solutions)- Sander Van Vugt's RHCE 2nd edition course- A generous amount of VMs.Practice exam recommendations:- Sander Van Vugt's sample exam from the same course mentioned above-https://github.com/Abdulhamid97Mousa/RHCE-EX294-https://github.com/x69van/rhce9-ex294-practice-labA huge Thank you to this sub and its members.Why I'm posting so late ?I was in a terrible state, mentally. wanted to finally do some things that made me happy.went out on a few rides, clicked some pictures.RHCSA at 18yoRHCE at 20yoguess i should be happy.
Just passed the RHCSA 10 exam Just passed the RHCSA 10 examu/Captain-Seabear•1 mo. agoJust passed the RHCSA 10 examScore was 253/300My weakness is definitely shell scripting but I scored high enough to shrug it off.1 recommendation is the RHCSA RHEL 10 with Exam Labs by Sander Van Vugt. I signed up for O’Reilly learning and spent the last couple weeks going through it.I also took a cheap Udemy class as well as a class from Linkedin but they did not prepare me as well.My background is around 2+ years of Linux/Windows administration. I also work full time as a System Admin managing RHEL 8 servers.Good luck to anyone studying I hope you do well.
Confused as to how I failed Confused as to how I failedu/kyotaka-Ryomai•2 days agoConfused as to how I failed( RHCSA )This is confusing not only did all my efforts survive multiple reboots but I’m pretty sure I wouldn’t be able to download anything without configuration of the network being applied. I made all the users and groups and set all the passwords!I used grep and tar correctly, in truth there were only 3 questions that I didn’t fully answer. Timerd, flatpak (cause for some reason it wouldn’t download on the account that it was required) but I installed it. And another one I don’t remember. But everything else I most definitely did successfully.I’ll retake it in 2 weeks but I’m not sure what to do cause they don’t tell you how you messed up, like how tf does it ask me about a user and I do exactly what they ask and I get 0%Like anyone with basic Linux can configure it. Smh I did my exam remotely.Exam domain number:     12Passing score:          210Your score:             63Result: NO PASSPerformance on exam objectives:OBJECTIVE: SCOREUnderstand and use essential tools: 9%Manage software: 25%Create simple shell scripts: 0%Operate running systems: 38%Configure local storage: 50%Create and configure file systems: 33%Deploy, configure and maintain systems: 33%Manage basic networking: 0%Manage users and groups: 0%Manage security: 0%
RHCSA certification. RHCSA certification.u/ankitnewjobs•6 days agoRHCSA certification.I have a question. I am planning to pursue the RHCSA certification. Could you please share the resources you followed during your preparation? Also, how much time does it typically take to be ready for this certification?
Passed rhcsa v10 Passed rhcsa v10u/pavel1024•16 days agoPassed rhcsa v10I passed RHCSA! RHCSA v10OBJECTIVE: SCOREUnderstand and use essential tools: 83%Manage software: 50%Create simple shell scripts: 100%Operate running systems: 75%Configure local storage: 100%Create and configure file systems: 100%Deploy, configure and maintain systems: 100%Manage basic networking: 100%Manage users and groups: 100%Manage security: 100%RHCE next? What do you think? Which way will be the best?
Intro to Unix class threw me into "Red Hat System Administration" Intro to Unix class threw me into "Red Hat System Administration"u/yongpas•2 days agoIntro to Unix class threw me into "Red Hat System Administration"I can't tell if this maybe just isn't for me or if this is a normal feeling... My college courses for IT Cybersecurity & Networking have two Linux courses and I'm in the "Intro" one right now. Though it's through a community college / D2L, everything besides our quizzes and discussion posts is on Red Hat Academy. I'm only on module 3 right now but I feel like it all is expecting a base level knowledge of Linux that I don't have and this is the lowest Unix course my college has. Does it get easier to understand? The labs are making me panic truly
IT automation with agentic AI: Introducing the MCP server for Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform IT automation with agentic AI: Introducing the MCP server for Red Hat Ansible Automation Platformu/seanx820•10 days agoIT automation with agentic AI: Introducing the MCP server for Red Hat Ansible Automation PlatformIT automation with agentic AI: Introducing the MCP server for Red Hat Ansible Automation Platformr/ansible•10 days agoIT automation with agentic AI: Introducing the MCP server for Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform2upvotes·5comments
RHCSA RHCSAu/Pure-Personality-456•3 days agoRHCSAHi i have rhcsa exam tomorrow i am little nervous. This is my first attempt giving redhat certification. Any tips? How many ques r there? Which topics to focus on?
Can we get a Sys Admin Job Without Exp just with RHCA Can we get a Sys Admin Job Without Exp just with RHCAu/Kooky-Fig6248•5 days agoCan we get a Sys Admin Job Without Exp just with RHCARHCSA*
Satellite 6.18 Leapp pre-upgrade tab gone from job monitoring? Satellite 6.18 Leapp pre-upgrade tab gone from job monitoring?u/SanaulFTW•11 days agoSatellite 6.18 Leapp pre-upgrade tab gone from job monitoring?After version 6.18 satellite upgrade the Leapp pre-upgrade check tab that was previously on the job monitoring seems to be gone? I made sure to re-enable the "foreman-plugin-leapp" in the satellite server but no luck. Anyone else having the same issue? Trying my luck here, Red Hat premium support is being useless -_-
guest support for RHEL10 on HyperV 2025? guest support for RHEL10 on HyperV 2025?u/LifesTough4321•11 days agoguest support for RHEL10 on HyperV 2025?Hi.Any Information on guest support for RHEL10 on HyperV 2025?Until now, only version 9 seems to be supported, I just want the extra years of support when deploying new services.Thanks & Bye.
Red Hat – Associate Software Engineer Interview Red Hat – Associate Software Engineer Interviewu/Dependent_Raisin5684•7 days agoRed Hat – Associate Software Engineer InterviewAnyone here interviewed forRed Hat – Associate Software Engineer (Fresher)?I’ve got asingle 60-min techno-managerial roundscheduled. Would appreciate any tips or what to expect
kodekloud - storage management learning/lab - enough to prepare for actual exam? kodekloud - storage management learning/lab - enough to prepare for actual exam?u/The51stAgent•11 days agokodekloud - storage management learning/lab - enough to prepare for actual exam?I struggle with, though am getting a little more comfortable with, physical volume/partitions/logical volumes, etc. I am using kodecloud and slowly getting  the hang of things. Has anyone else here struggled with these topics, but used kodecloud virtual lab/course and then ended up passing this topic on the exam? the issue is that i have looked at other sources but those just aren't helping me get it to stick. Kodecloud has done the best job so far but just hard to tell if this will be enough. Any thoughts?
Completed RHCSA!! Completed RHCSA!!u/After_Management361•15 days agoCompleted RHCSA!!Hello Redditor’s, I have recently completed RHCSA. Have a fair understanding of how Linux works. Planning on doing some hands on projects before applying for Linux fresher jobs. I am a non IT guy trying to switch to IT. Can you guys please suggest me some projects that I could do that would help me land a job along with my certification. And few job titles that I could apply to get a fresher job related to Linux. I am open to NOC roles as well, I am down to learn networking concepts as well. Need your suggestions guys. Please be kind.
Does anyone know when internship acceptances/rejections come out for Red Hat? Does anyone know when internship acceptances/rejections come out for Red Hat?u/ScienceByte•11 days agoDoes anyone know when internship acceptances/rejections come out for Red Hat?For Summer 2026.I applied in very early January and was wondering when I'd know, since I've started to get followup emails from some other companies.
Do redhat also hires entry-level devs(or new grads) Do redhat also hires entry-level devs(or new grads)u/Longjumping-Claim837•12 days agoDo redhat also hires entry-level devs(or new grads)I'm having my phone screening up coming monday, though it is not software dev but maintanense engineer who should possibly have some dev skill and probabily have more experience of production level enviroment.I'm expecting graduation for my CS degree this month, and have some experience with GO, KVM and OVN.I had few patches with opensource projects, mostly virtualization control plane, but still insecure if i can be one of those competitive candiate.i've always admired to become red hatter, It will be muchas appriciate if anyone can give me some tips about anything :)
DISCOUNT CODE: CL5AKK3P DISCOUNT CODE: CL5AKK3Pu/genesis9440•4 days agoDISCOUNT CODE: CL5AKK3PGood Luck !!!
Anyone using Image Mode rhel10 bootc to manage laptops? Anyone using Image Mode rhel10 bootc to manage laptops?u/openstacker•2 days agoAnyone using Image Mode rhel10 bootc to manage laptops?Boss wants a new way to baseline and manage sysadmin systems, and while I'm not sure this is it I am intrigued by the possibility.Is anyone doing this yet, and do you have suggestions, war stories, and gotchas to share?
Why has redhat removed Podman in RHCSA Why has redhat removed Podman in RHCSAu/Loud_Significance908•15 days agoWhy has redhat removed Podman in RHCSAI recently found out that RedHat has removed Podman from the RHCSAv10 exam, and replaced it with flatpak.https://www.redhat.com/en/services/training/ex200-red-hat-certified-system-administrator-rhcsa-examanyone know why this was done? managing containers is only a growing system administrator task, and is useful, and required for modern server management.
RHCSA v10 pass RHCSA v10 passu/Comfortable_Sailor•27 days agoRHCSA v10 passPosted last month that I did not pass with 205 score. Took it again yesterday and got a 300.Read sander’s v9 book and watched YouTube videos for practice questions.Now a Linux admin job falls in my lap right???
New OpenShift 4.20.11 install Having API timeouts New OpenShift 4.20.11 install Having API timeoutsu/geeky217•14 days agoNew OpenShift 4.20.11 install Having API timeoutsNew OpenShift 4.20.11 install Having API timeoutsr/openshift•14 days agoNew OpenShift 4.20.11 install Having API timeoutsI have a ESX7 server in my test lab with a number of VMs in including OS 4.18 as a SNO install. Trying to install 4.20 SNO and the install works fine but I'm getting intermittant API stalls which is refelcted in OC and UI timeouts. I have set minimum commits on CPU/memory on the ESX, set it on it's own dedicated RAID1 SSD datastore, set the VM disks to thick eager zero and done everything I can think of to provide dedicated resource to this VM. The overall ESX cpu load is around 30%, so there should be plenty of headroom and memory is enough to cope (16cores/64GB RAM). The 4.18 works flawlessly and I know there were some tollance changes in 4.19, where it's stricter on latency....Has anyone seen similar to this as I've about run out of ideas....VM type template is RHEL9 BTW....2upvotes·6comments
VİRTUAL HOST/Apache/ help VİRTUAL HOST/Apache/ helpu/medeasoulx•2 days agoVİRTUAL HOST/Apache/ helpMy server IP is10.10.10.40. I configureddomain-based virtual hostsin Apache, and all virtual hosts are supposed to run on the same IP address. I also changed the HTTP port to20234and created two domains:site1.localandsite2.local.However, the problem is that when I runcurl 10.10.10.40:20234, it returns the content of thesite1index.html file.How can I fix this and make Apache properly distinguish between the virtual hosts? ( RHEL9)
EX267 (Openshift AI) Exam preparation EX267 (Openshift AI) Exam preparationu/Old_Philosophy_8607•3 days agoEX267 (Openshift AI) Exam preparationHello,does somebody achieved the EX267 Exam and can share the exam experience? I am done with AI267 preparation course and i am wondering how deep i need to go into hands on. Especially:Work with machine learning models...Train models in Python using popular foundational librariesLoad data in a scalable way...During the AI267 course there are already jupyter notebooks prepared. Nearly no code i have to write by myself. Is the situation the same in the exam?Also:Save and load modelsSave, export, and share modelsDeploy models as Python applicationsCreate a custom runtime in KServeDeploy a model using ModelMeshLike create a custom runtime: During the course just build an image add it to the already existingServingRuntimeYAML and upload it. Do i need to build my own ServingRuntime from scratch or is it like in the course just completing stuff?
HELPPPO | NFS | Autofs HELPPPO | NFS | Autofsu/medeasoulx•5 days agoHELPPPO | NFS | AutofsI am working on a project on RHEL 9. What interesting and creative things can I implement related to NFS and autofs? This is for my diploma project.What kind of features, configurations, or use cases would be creative and worth showcasing? Additionally, I would appreciate ideas related to SSH integration.I would be very grateful for your help.
Can a minor version upgrade break things? Can a minor version upgrade break things?u/WonderfulFinger3617•5 days agoCan a minor version upgrade break things?Hi everyone,I hope you're doing well.I'll need to install redmine (web app)  on a fresh test VM with 10.1 with ruby, some dependencies, mariadb as well with the latest version on the repo.We in our company have just standard support and we need todnf updateevery six months ( correct me if I'm wrong please) from 10.1 until 10.10 so we can get security patches etc. until 2035.But my question is, will minor version upgrade break the versions of mariadb or ruby or anything else I installed now in 10.1 ?I really want to understand how things work about that!Thanks in advance :)ps: sorry for my english
EX188 (Specialist in Containers) exam results – clarification needed on “Run containers locally using Podman” EX188 (Specialist in Containers) exam results – clarification needed on “Run containers locally using Podman”u/kovalr•4 days agoEX188 (Specialist in Containers) exam results – clarification needed on “Run containers locally using Podman”Hi all,I’ve received my Red Hat exam objective breakdown and I’m trying to better understand one particular result.Objective scores:Implement images using Podman:                    75% Manage images:                                   75% Run containers locally using Podman:             47% Run multi-container applications with Podman:    80% Troubleshoot containerized applications:         86%The weakest area was clearly“Run containers locally using Podman.”What confuses me is theconsistency of the results:I scored80% on running multi-container applications,but only47% on running containers locally, which feels counterintuitive.This is especially confusing to me because, to run a multi-container application (particularlywithout Compose), you still need to:create networks,run containers one by one,configure ports, volumes, environment variables, etc.That’s why I’m wondering whether Red Hat interprets“run containers locally”in a very specific way (e.g. systemd integration, auto-start).For context, I verified that the application was reachable in a browser and working as expected.I need some advice:Any common mistakes candidates make here?How would you recommend practicing this objective specifically?Thanks in advance for any insights.
RHCSA EX200K v10 objectives RHCSA EX200K v10 objectivesu/PresentationBig3759•3 days agoRHCSA EX200K v10 objectivesI’m preparing for the RHCSA exam and I’m scheduled to take it onRHEL 10. I was reviewing the exam objectives and noticed that only the topics listed below are mentioned.Does this mean that questions related toPodman/containers, ACLs, and image-based RHELarenot part of the RHCSA exam for RHEL 10?Exam objectives listed:Understand and use essential toolsManage softwareCreate simple shell scriptsOperate running systemsManage tuning profilesConfigure local storageCreate and configure file systemsDeploy, configure, and maintain systemsManage basic networkingManage users and groupsManage security
Developer Subscription not added to account even after 2 days Developer Subscription not added to account even after 2 daysu/Thigoe•19 days agoDeveloper Subscription not added to account even after 2 daysIf i register my server, there is no repo to update/install packages, also there is no subscription under my account still.Is there a problem on subscription system?Update: There was an issue on subscription system, redhat support solved it.
How to prepare for RHCSA for noob How to prepare for RHCSA for noobu/Bannednibba•3 days agoHow to prepare for RHCSA for noobHow to prepare for RHCSA for noobr/linux4noobs•3 days agoHow to prepare for RHCSA for noobHey there everyone,I'm someone who never touched linux and worked in customer support throughout my life, now with a few months there will be a new opportunity in my job where we could switch to a different team (non support role) but they need RHCSA holders.I want to go for it but get overwhelmed looking at couses and confused by thousands of people teaching linux.I understand pratice is needed but I need a good instructor who can teach me while I manage my night shift job.5upvotes·1comment
gitlab ce repo incomplete? gitlab ce repo incomplete?u/Tuck-son•21 days agogitlab ce repo incomplete?gitlab ce repo incomplete?r/gitlab•21 days agogitlab ce repo incomplete?Hi,I use gitlab CE repo in my RHEL Satellite (6.18.1) to maintain our Gitlab CE installation. However it is not able to sync anymore due to the following error:Repository doesn't contain required metadata file 'primary.xml' .The upstream url we use:https://packages.gitlab.com/gitlab/gitlab-ce/el/9/x86_64Anyone know why?2upvotes·1comment
Secure Compute & Trusted Execution Virtual Event Secure Compute & Trusted Execution Virtual Eventu/WalrusOk4591•24 days agoSecure Compute & Trusted Execution Virtual EventSecure Compute & Trusted Execution Virtual Eventu/WalrusOk4591•25 days agoSecure Compute & Trusted Execution Virtual Event
RHCSA 10 question RHCSA 10 questionu/tapatiosec•7 days agoRHCSA 10 questionHello everyone,I am a digital forensics professional who is trying to specialize in Linux and mobile forensics. I'm being told that a good way to prove I know things about platforms well in my industry is to hold certifications for that thing. I am considering getting RHCSA as a way of proving this competency in Linux.If I decide to get this certification, the materials I currently have to prepare for it are my current Linux knowledge (I've been working on Linux for around 6 years), some labs I found online, and the Asgar Ghori RHEL 8 book. If I decide to use the book for most of my preparation, how appropriate is using that old material for the new RHEL 10 test?I appreciate your assistance,tapatio
Import all from aap 2.4 rpm to a 2.6 Import all from aap 2.4 rpm to a 2.6u/gdf113•25 days agoImport all from aap 2.4 rpm to a 2.6I would like to migrate my Ansible Automation Platform 2.4 RPM-based installation to a single-node, containerized 2.6 installation. What is the best approach?
Tuned-adm profile won’t stay persistent Tuned-adm profile won’t stay persistentu/kyotaka-Ryomai•4 days agoTuned-adm profile won’t stay persistentLike the title says, the tuned won’t stay persistent after reboot.What I do.Dnf install tuned -ySystemctl enable - - now tunedTuned-adm active (normally says balanced)Tuned-adm profile <profile I want to set>If I reboot it goes back to balanceAny idea why?I’m practically on rocky v10 for RHCSA
Is the RHCSA even worth it for me? Is the RHCSA even worth it for me?u/The51stAgent•1 mo. agoIs the RHCSA even worth it for me?Quick rundown: Have been doing IT support/Sysadmin work for about ten years. Have some foundational  certs (A+/Net+/Sec+/ Linux Essentials). I'm learning a lot of great stuff from studying RHCSA but with the tech job market as bad as it is right now, I'm wondering if bagging the RHCSA will even get me what I want (which is a 6 figure+ salary Linux Admin role). Right now, I am a windows/linux sysadmin but as far as the linux side goes, it's sort of like duties I've managed to fill in place of seasoned Sr Linux admins that have left the company. I do patching, software installs, occasional troubleshooting of files/user permissions. things like that. But I'm not really too deep into it beyond that at work. I am in the New England area, not far from Boston. I'm just finding it more difficult lately to find the motivation to study and especially in terms of bagging a cert like this, which is far more involved than previous certs I have. Some will say "study it for the knowledge, not the money" but I am literally only interested in sacrificing my time if it will pay off financially. With the experience I already have, will an RHCSA really set me aside from other candidates when I go to apply to outside companies? It's hard to even tell anymore.
RHCSA 10 objectives RHCSA 10 objectivesu/Smart-Apple8847•7 days agoRHCSA 10 objectivesI'm seeing some conflicting info online about the RHEL 10 exam. Can anyone confirm if these topics are officially included in the objectives?• LVM thin provisioning• VDO (Virtual Data Optimizer)• Server-side NFS setup• SELinux booleans• Advanced Firewall (Zones, rich rules, or custom services)I want to make sure I’m focusing on the right areas and not over-preparing for topics that aren't covered in the objectives. Thanks!
Value/ROI of the RHSCA in the U.S? Value/ROI of the RHSCA in the U.S?u/Illustrious-Pop-8906•17 days agoValue/ROI of the RHSCA in the U.S?I always read about how the CCNA was one of the best investments that a person in I.T could make allowing them to make more money, get a higher role, etc.What is the ROI for the RHCSA? Did it help you land another role? Did you have any other certs? Do you feel it was worth the investment?  etcAny all stories are helpful.Thanks.
Passed the RHCSA Passed the RHCSAu/One_Presentation_139•1 mo. agoPassed the RHCSASo I had a 255/300 as pass at the RHCSA. Had 0 in networking and containers. Did everything right in containers but realized I used the wrong container name and had no time to correct the mistake once I saw it. Didn't know just a wrong name will invalidate everything. In the Networking section, they added a Net mask as configuration(255.255.255.0) and I wasn't sure where to add it so I didn't fill it.I thought the exam was very basic and I should have taken it earlier instead of spending months prepping (4months total, fairly consistent). I understood the interface a fair bit before taking the exam but my God, does the exam interface feel so clunky and outdated. I wasted so much time switching between tabs. Probably one reason why I didn't have enough time to revise my questions.
Quickest way to get out of Help Desk--RHCSA or CCNA? Quickest way to get out of Help Desk--RHCSA or CCNA?u/Illustrious-Pop-8906•1 mo. agoQuickest way to get out of Help Desk--RHCSA or CCNA?I was going to post this onr/ITCareerQuestionsbut I don't have enough karma and thought I would ask here.Which one would be more advantageous to get?-3 years as a Help Desk, Tier 2 -Net+, Linux+, Sec+, AWS 900, AZ900 -aiming for a junior role/level 1 position -Bachelor's in English Language and LiteratureI don't really have an affinity towards one or the other and live in a metropolitan area where it seems that both position are being posted daily (i.e, junior network administrator/linux or red hat administrator)
Copy and paste from terminal Copy and paste from terminalu/emkay25•1 mo. agoCopy and paste from terminalHello, I recently took the RHCSA 10 and wasn’t able to copy and paste from the console/terminal. I will be doing a retake as I did not pass the exam, but just want to see if there are any tips on copying and pasting from the terminal. Btw I wasn’t even able to highlight/select Any tips that could save me time, I’ll appreciate 🙏🏽
What are the benefits of TN What are the benefits of TNu/troxcigancina•1 mo. agoWhat are the benefits of TNI assume that Talent Network is very helpful to studnets in way that people from there will recruit you to work for them? But I need better explanation than that, anybody around here who had experience with Talent Network, I will get that helpful and thank you.
Can anyone suggest me a Study roadmap?? Can anyone suggest me a Study roadmap??u/Kooky-Fig6248•6 days agoCan anyone suggest me a Study roadmap??
RHCSA exam simulators? RHCSA exam simulators?u/Lisan_Al-NaCL•8 days agoRHCSA exam simulators?So I've been a linux user/admin since kernel 0.97 (yes, that old). I've held numerous Unix/Linux admin (and "DevOps" and 'SRE' etc etc titles) oriented jobs over the past couple of decades but it seems I'm not ticking the recruiter 'boxes' anymore so I figured I'd have a poke at a couple of new certs (I have AWS and Azure certs as well) just to get past the recruiter and/or AI screens.Are there any exam simulators for the RHCSA or RHCE? Like an interactive VM with sample questions you'd see on the exam?
How to install Open vSwitch? How to install Open vSwitch?u/thomasbbbb•4 days agoHow to install Open vSwitch?Hello,It seems there is no package for RHEL 8+ :https://docs.openvswitch.org/en/latest/intro/install/#installation-from-packagesWould you install it with the sources instead?
Red hat certififed architect Red hat certififed architectu/ActualRuin9489•8 days agoRed hat certififed architectHi guys, Currently I have 6 certificates rhsca+rhce, ex280, containers, clustering and satellite. I want to get my architect cert but unfortunately my learning subscription expired and my company doesnt plan on renewing it. Any advice on which certificate I can work on without the rhls and to be as cost friendly as possible
15% off 15% offu/nevertheodds13•5 days ago15% off15% offValid through 08-May-26. Please comment when not working anymore. Enjoy!NC5MRNHZ
Install help Install helpu/ResPublicae•1 mo. agoInstall helpI downloaded the developer iso, and I'm trying to install on a 2011 ThinkPad x220. So far it does not work at all. When I write the sd card in iso mode it loads to grub rescue and when in dd mode it loads to a blank screen.
Would very like to chat! Possible opportunity could come from this.. Would very like to chat! Possible opportunity could come from this..u/LordZiggity•5 days agoWould very like to chat! Possible opportunity could come from this..Hey, would like to speak to some of you as “hackers” you all clearly know the best ways to keep the best security and would know answers to a lot of questions I have and could help me with some advice — I’d appreciate to hear back, please dm me, and we can talk from there!!POSSIBLE JOB OPPORTUNITY or just a freelance one time thing — or just chat up to you!Thanks so much!!Z
Anyone know how I can deploy an azure VM with ext4 file system? Anyone know how I can deploy an azure VM with ext4 file system?u/shedgehog•6 days agoAnyone know how I can deploy an azure VM with ext4 file system?I have to install some software that has a requirement the disks use ext4. Has to be in azure. I can’t for the life of me find a way to do this. Seems to default deployment uses xfs and I don’t see how that can be changed.  Any help?
RHCSA certification. RHCSA certification.u/ankitnewjobs•6 days agoRHCSA certification.RHCSA certification.r/redhat•6 days agoRHCSA certification.I have a question. I am planning to pursue the RHCSA certification. Could you please share the resources you followed during your preparation? Also, how much time does it typically take to be ready for this certification?8comments
EX280 EX280u/OMAR_AHMED_01•1 mo. agoEX280Anybody took the exam recently, is it still 4.14 or have been updated to 4.18, any tips?
DOMAİN-BASED VİRTUAL HOST DOMAİN-BASED VİRTUAL HOSTu/medeasoulx•6 days agoDOMAİN-BASED VİRTUAL HOSTI need to configure domain-based virtual hosts on RHEL: site1.local, site2.local, and site3.local. All of them must run on the same IP address.I’ve configured this up to a point, but when I access the server directly via its IP address, one of the virtual host pages is shown. What I want instead is:When I open 10.10.10.10, it should display a separate default page, for example: “Hello, I am the server default page.”When I open site1.local, it should display: “I am site 1.”The same logic should apply for site2.local and site3.local.All of these must work on the same IP address, but with a separate default virtual host for the server IP.APACHE
Do you know RHCSA promotion code(active)? Do you know RHCSA promotion code(active)?u/Stunning_Meal366•8 days agoDo you know RHCSA promotion code(active)?Hi Guys, Do you know RHCSA promotion code(active)?
RHCSA exam sim material RHCSA exam sim materialu/Flat-Association-552•1 mo. agoRHCSA exam sim materialhttps://github.com/AustinNicely/rhcsa-simulatorFound this on GitHub looks pretty cool. Appears to have been created using Claude code. Just wanted to share. Only need python3 to get it running. Also has the option to integrate Claude code
Is it? Is it?u/troxcigancina•1 mo. agoIs it?Recruiter from one very big company called my best friend for an interview and referred to RHCSA as gold standard certificate. Is RHCSA really that good? I'm seriously thinking about taking it now. Btw I would like to work as cloud security engineer one day so I think it would be useful to take it.
Is it worth it to pass the RHCSA exam as a junior devops engineer? Is it worth it to pass the RHCSA exam as a junior devops engineer?u/Ykiro•19 days agoIs it worth it to pass the RHCSA exam as a junior devops engineer?Hi all,I recently started my first professional position as a DevOps Engineer. I’m about 8 months in now, and heard about full red hat certifications (RHCSA/RHCE/RHCA), found it really tempting for a career boost and for personal development.But i learnt that it got a "validity" of 3 years, so is it really wise to work for it and pass the rhcsa early in my career with my current job as it it, or should i just wait until i start looking for better positions or shifts in my career?Thanks in advance for the insights!
Java GUI "Invisible" on RHEL 6 after hard power-cut (Process exists, no window) Java GUI "Invisible" on RHEL 6 after hard power-cut (Process exists, no window)u/SkylineJPN•7 days agoJava GUI "Invisible" on RHEL 6 after hard power-cut (Process exists, no window)Java GUI "Invisible" on RHEL 6 after hard power-cut (Process exists, no window)r/linuxadmin•7 days agoJava GUI "Invisible" on RHEL 6 after hard power-cut (Process exists, no window)The ProblemI am troubleshooting a recurring issue on anairgapped RHEL 6server. As part of a power-loss test,Ihard-cut the power.~70% of the time:System recovers normally.~30% of the time:The Java GUI fails to appear.The Symptom:ps -efshows the process is running, but no window renders. Reboots and killing/restarting the process donotfix it. The only current fix is a full re-image.Note: Upgrading the OS is not an option (despite my desparate cries to do so).What I’ve Attempted (No Success):X11 / Display:Deleted/regenerated.Xauthority.Cleared/tmp/.X11-unix/X0(socket) and/tmp/.X0-lock.Reinstalled X11 RPMs.Java Environment:Deleted Java font cache.Replaced/usr/javaand/usr/lib/jvmwith known good backups.Replaced the application.jaritself.System:Set SELinux topermissive.Standard reboots (issue persists across reboots once it "triggers").Current Theories:I suspect a corrupted state file or a stale lock hidden somewhere outside the usual X11 directories.DISPLAY Environment Variable:Verified as:0.Logs:CheckingXorg.0.logand Javastdout/stderr, but nothing has jumped out yet.Any ideas on what could survive a reboot and prevent a Java window from mapping to the display, specifically on an older kernel/X11 stack like RHEL 6?Seriously ANY help is greatly appreciated I have been banging my head against this problem for quite some time and it is a time sensitive issue. I will try to answer all question as best as I am able, thanks!EDIT: Also the problem exists for all users on the system not just the user that was running the application at the time of the power loss.8upvotes·27comments
RHCE ? RHCE ?u/Salty_Nothing_5609•1 mo. agoRHCE ?hello everyone after passing rhcsa with 300/300 im planning to move forward !am confused now between preparing for the RHCE or just learning ansible by myself without certification and do kubernetes ?
RHCSA preparation question (RHEL 9 or RHEL 10?) RHCSA preparation question (RHEL 9 or RHEL 10?)u/imen91•1 mo. agoRHCSA preparation question (RHEL 9 or RHEL 10?)HelloI’m wondering whether I should start preparing for the RHCSA exam on RHEL 10 or RHEL 9. I bought Asghar Ghori’s RHCSA book for RHEL 9 and I’ve already started studying the first six chapters. For those who have already passed the RHCSA, what would you recommend I do?Thanks in advance!
RHCSA preparation question (RHEL 9 or RHEL 10?) RHCSA preparation question (RHEL 9 or RHEL 10?)u/imen91•1 mo. agoRHCSA preparation question (RHEL 9 or RHEL 10?)RHCSA preparation question (RHEL 9 or RHEL 10?)r/redhat•1 mo. agoRHCSA preparation question (RHEL 9 or RHEL 10?)HelloI’m wondering whether I should start preparing for the RHCSA exam on RHEL 10 or RHEL 9. I bought Asghar Ghori’s RHCSA book for RHEL 9 and I’ve already started studying the first six chapters. For those who have already passed the RHCSA, what would you recommend I do?Thanks in advance!7upvotes·5comments
RHCE CC Payment pending (still) RHCE CC Payment pending (still)u/Least_Toe_8980•1 mo. agoRHCE CC Payment pending (still)After an entire week, they have still not verified the payment that i made last saturday.It is ridiculous how i can make a  payment on literally any marketplace worth its damn salt on the internet and have my payment be acknowledged within seconds but redhat takes an entire week to "look into it" and "get back to me shortly"idk if anyone on this sub can help me out, honestly this was just a rant atp.
RHCSA 9.3  EXAM = Need Partice test advice RHCSA 9.3  EXAM = Need Partice test adviceu/Fearless_Box_9215•1 mo. agoRHCSA 9.3  EXAM = Need Partice test adviceGot my test schedule for March 2026 RHCSA 9.3 NOT GOING TO TAKE V10 feel like 9 gives you better skill level in RH Linux - what is the best partice test ? Study using Alta3 training videos. Let me know any tips or help. Peace..
Configuring RHEL behaviors for Amazon Q Developer Configuring RHEL behaviors for Amazon Q Developeru/louisPTC•8 days agoConfiguring RHEL behaviors for Amazon Q DeveloperFor my latest article in my series on  AI Assisted coding for software developers targeting RHEL I  looked at how to set good RHEL behaviors in Amazon Q Developer. As with my previous articles, there is a sample configuration that gets you Red Hat-behaviors automatically. I'd love to hear other suggestions on how the experience could be improved? Thanks in advance!https://medium.com/techtrends-digest/how-to-configure-amazon-q-developer-for-rhel-development-a0125ae46883
Clarification on RH124, RH134 and RHCSA Clarification on RH124, RH134 and RHCSAu/Embarrassed_Insect24•1 mo. agoClarification on RH124, RH134 and RHCSAHi everyone,I’m new to Red Hat certifications, so this might be a basic question, but I wanted to confirm something to make sure I understood correctly.From what I’ve seen,RH124 and RH134 are training courses, not certifications. My understanding is that these courses help prepare someone for theRHCSA certification, but theyare not the certification itself. Is that correct?I couldn’t find a specific “RHCSA training” listed in the partner portal, so it seems like these two courses are the recommended training options to prepare for the RHCSA exam.Can someone confirm if this is accurate?Thank you!
RHCSA 10 RHCSA 10u/medeasoulx•1 mo. agoRHCSA 10Hi, has anyone taken the RHCSA 10 exam? What were the differences compared to RHCSA 9, and were there any questions or major changes?
RHCSA RHCSAu/medeasoulx•1 mo. agoRHCSAGuys, hi. I’m preparing for the RHSCA exam. Does anyone have real/practical tasks for general revision? Either ones you’ve prepared yourselves or ones from a teacher. AI-generated questions don’t really satisfy me.
RHEL 10 ISO is a massive 7.9 GB RHEL 10 ISO is a massive 7.9 GBu/TechnicalAd8103•27 days agoRHEL 10 ISO is a massive 7.9 GBPosting here because tinyr/rhelseems to be a dead community.But anyway, can someone explain why the ISO is so massive? Is it so everything can be installed offline?I've also downloaded Pop!_OS and Linux Mint ISOs, and they are around 3.5 - 4.5 GB. Mint is just boring and something about the design doesn't sit right with me. Hated Mint so much that I didn't use it long enough to experience instability. Pop is a fun OS, but my system has crashed twice, and I need my system to be very stable, hence the reason for choosing RHELThanks in advance.
Time needed to prepare for EX280 exam. Time needed to prepare for EX280 exam.u/malikrihani•8 days agoTime needed to prepare for EX280 exam.Hi all,I have premium subscription account on RedHat and it expires after 15 days, i've passed EX188 and EX200 exams.Is it doable to study the DO280 course from RedHat and prepare for the EX280 exam before the subscription expires?
Salary Expectations for a Junior rhcsa and openshift Role? Salary Expectations for a Junior rhcsa and openshift Role?u/Pure-Dig-1307•1 mo. agoSalary Expectations for a Junior rhcsa and openshift Role?Hi everyone, I’m looking to move into DevOps or Cloud with RHCSA and openshift, and I’m wondering what the typical salary range is for a junior role with little or no experience. How much do you think a junior can realistically earn? If possible, please share the country the salary refers to.Where I live, even if I’m very lucky, I think I’d get around $25k at best—though I may be wrong about this. For a junior role, I believe it could be closer to $12k per year.Any tips are welcome.Also do you think freelancing or remote working for a another country is common for this ?
RedHat Promo Code RedHat Promo Codeu/Efficient_Log7640•9 days agoRedHat Promo CodeOP81FE61
Career Careeru/haerinismyworld•28 days agoCareerHello... I am 22 years old and currently working as a server & SAN administrator.Since university, I have been actively learning and using Linux. I would like to ask about career progression in Linux Administration/Engineering. Is pursuing a career in Linux better in various aspects compared to my current field? If so, could you outline the points I need to consider in pursuing this?I sincerely appreciate your insights. Thanks A lot!🙏
Rd.break not it with v10 Rd.break not it with v10u/Ok-Berry-2727•18 days agoRd.break not it with v10Glad I decided to practice on the 10 version instead of the 9 I been using to do practice labs and scenario  today . Rd.break is not the route to go if you taking the exam v10. It don’t allow you to chroot and etc. have to go the other route with init= /bin/bash.Lucky I wasn’t taking the test and figured it out the now. I would have been screwed. I will continuing practicing on v10 instead of v9.
RHCE Exam documentation RHCE Exam documentationu/Niarot•1 mo. agoRHCE Exam documentationHi, I'm planning to take the RHCE exam (v9) soon and now I wonder what kind of documentation will be available during the exam? So far it was different for all the RedHat exams I took. Some had no documentation except man pages, some a PDF with the content of the official RedHat documentation and one even had a website based documentation, how is it for RHCE, do I only get the CLI based one with the doc command or also a version of the web based one?I know how to use the CLI based one but the location where I have to take the exam only has a 17" screen with bad resolution so using the CLI tools to view e.g. role parameters would be considerably slower de to increased reading time.
authd authdu/crankysysadmin•1 mo. agoauthdI just found out about authd. This is incredibly cool.https://documentation.ubuntu.com/authd/stable-docs/howto/login-ssh/Anyone know if there is a way to make this work on RHEL?
EX200 exam confusion about RHEL 9 or RHEL 10 EX200 exam confusion about RHEL 9 or RHEL 10u/CorrectLawfulness435•1 mo. agoEX200 exam confusion about RHEL 9 or RHEL 10I'm planning to attempt EX200 exam and I'm preparing on RHEL-9 through self-study.I would just like to know thatwhich system we'll be given (to the candidates) in the exam environment? RHEl 9 or 10.I tried googling, but I got some older answer from early 2025/2024.So, if you got any clue regarding this, please let me know!
TSEs of Red Hat, do you find your job boring? TSEs of Red Hat, do you find your job boring?u/notRANT•25 days agoTSEs of Red Hat, do you find your job boring?I’m currently a Support Engineer at Amazon, and to be honest, I’m finding the role mind-numbingly boring. ​Most of my day is consumed by "toil" and maintenance tasks:​Keeping systems up-to-date.​Remediating risks caught by internal detection systems.​Basic operational "keep the lights on" work.​I’m a huge Linux enthusiast and I want to spend my time building transferable skills—things that satisfy my curiosity and make me more marketable outside of the Amazon ecosystem. I feel like I'm stagnating here.​For those of you in TSE/Support roles: Do you find your work boring? Is it just the nature of the beast, or should I be looking for a role with more "engineering" and less "maintenance"?
What to do after finishing Sanders video course? What to do after finishing Sanders video course?u/acidman390•1 mo. agoWhat to do after finishing Sanders video course?Hello! I just finished Sander’s video course and I am trying to figure out what to do next to study effectively. I know there’s a few things I didn’t quite understand with sander so I’m going to find YouTube videos for those specifically.However, I’m considering going through each exam objective next to ensure I am capable of doing them. And I want to know if that would be a good next step and how to do it effectively.But I also do want to ask if you guys have any good practice exam sources I can use. I bought Ghada Atefs 6 exams and am going to use Sander’s video and RHEL9 book practice exams.Finally how should I look into memorizing or understanding flags?
What jobs are you applying for? What jobs are you applying for?u/khaddir_1•17 days agoWhat jobs are you applying for?Looking for a little insight. I currently work on GOV side of things and plan to do RHCSA study starting this week. What jobs are you all applying for? I have several certs and experience but I am  interested to know how the certification helped you get a job. While searching job boards I can see mostly government jobs using RedHat. Am I missing something or do public companies not use RedHat OS?
ordered RHCSA v9 Cert Guide via Pearson website mess ordered RHCSA v9 Cert Guide via Pearson website messu/20minlimit•9 days agoordered RHCSA v9 Cert Guide via Pearson website messI was shopping for the RHCSA v9 Cert Guide this week and the Person IT Certification website had the best price for either the books, ebook or bundle price.Created an account, went to purchase and couldn't get passed the billing and shipping address screen. The address validation kept failing. Nothing funny about my address, normal US shipping address following the Street, City, State, etc. format.Did all the troubleshooting, different browsers, cleared cached, turned off vpn, adblocker, different computer. Reached out to support yesterday, was ran in circles. Tried support again today, continued to be run in circles but while I'm sitting on hold I thought, lets throw "NA" in the address field for apartment/suite/building marked OPTIONAL and it worked!Kicking myself for not trying it earlier but I wanted this issue escalated so someone looks at it and fixes the issue for the next person and it was like pulling teeth. They kept asking, "Did you place your order succesfully?" bc they want to close the ticket, but the issue would still persist. I don't know if it was a language barrier or what, but I did get a call back from a supervisor who at least humored me and said he would escalate it.If you are looking for the bundle, it  came to 60 incl tax, free  shipping. Just put something in the optional address field. Happy Tinkering Everyone!Last bits, They don't fulfill orders via phone for individuals, only companies and they have a big empty white space on their homepage which makes me think they have other issues.Edit: added "support" to line for clarity
Path to RHCA Path to RHCAu/jeboygwapo•1 mo. agoPath to RHCAHello guys! Just want to ask what would be the next certifications that you can recommend me.İ currently have the following: EX188 EX280 EX432 EX430Thank you!
Should I install rhel 10.0 or 10.1? Should I install rhel 10.0 or 10.1?u/WonderfulFinger3617•9 days agoShould I install rhel 10.0 or 10.1?Hi everyone , I'm really confused about versions. The LTS is 10.1 but I noticed that there is no eus with 10.1. Should I install 10.0? What if I install 10.1?
RHCE CC Payment pending for three days RHCE CC Payment pending for three daysu/Least_Toe_8980•1 mo. agoRHCE CC Payment pending for three daysHey folks. I paid for my RHCE exam three days ago on the 3rd of jan, Saturday.My credit card has been billed the amount for the exam and I do not see any return/refund of any sort either.I raised a ticket yesterday morning, and that person forwarded it to the "appropriate counterpart" and is saying they will respond within 3 US business days.Is there anything I can do to speed this up ? I need to schedule the exam asap (im taking it remotely)
RHCSA Ghada Atef Exam- Hands on and Sander Van VUGT's book RHCSA Ghada Atef Exam- Hands on and Sander Van VUGT's booku/SnooSongs1256•1 mo. agoRHCSA Ghada Atef Exam- Hands on and Sander Van VUGT's bookI'm currently finish reading Sander's book for RHCSA, and wondering if I can just only practice lab with Ghada Atef on Udemy so I can better prepare my exams on 2/1/2026?
RHCSA for 48h RHCSA for 48hu/pavel1024•19 days agoRHCSA for 48hHello, can you give me some advice before RHCSA exam? I know that better use nmtui than nmcli etc., but something else? RHCSA v10
RHCSA container RHCSA containeru/SnooSongs1256•1 mo. agoRHCSA containerThe new RCHSA 9 exam removes the container part or just RHCSA 10?
# RHEL 9 V2R7 Changes # RHEL 9 V2R7 Changesu/Aggraxis•8 days ago# RHEL 9 V2R7 ChangesSorry for the misfire yesterday. I grabbed the wrong stuff. There is a session lock timer lowered this go around, so check your remediation products. :)Added RulesRHEL-09-654097 - (Cat 2) RHEL 9 must audit any script or executable called by cron as root or by any privileged userRemoved RulesRHEL-09-411115 - (Cat 2) Local RHEL 9 initialization files must not execute world-writable programsRHEL-09-412075 - (Cat 3) RHEL 9 must display the date and time of the last successful account logon upon logonStuff that might bite youRHEL-09-412080 - MATERIAL CHANGE: StopIdleSessionSec lowered from 900 to 600 (15 minutes to 10 minutes)RHEL-09-271065 - MATERIAL CHANGE: GUI session lock changed from 900 to 600 (15 minutes to 10 minutes)RHEL-09-671010 - Fix text addsfips=1kernel parameter in addition tofips-mode-setup --enableRHEL-09-253035 -net.ipv4.conf.all.rp_filtermust be 1. Previously it could have been 1 or 2.Rule ID Changes OnlyRHEL-09-212010RHEL-09-212020RHEL-09-232103RHEL-09-232104RHEL-09-232245Rule ID and Check ChangesRHEL-09-214025 - Added subdirectory sample output and clarifies that gpgcheck must be 1 in all repo filesRHEL-09-215045 - (no gssproxy) Added "If NFS mounts are authorized and in use on the system, this control is not applicable."RHEL-09-215101 - (must have postfix) Added "If the admin can demonstrate that there is another system/service to send audit failure notifications to the administrator/ISSO, this control is not applicable."RHEL-09-231105 - Added vfat file systems in addition to BIOS systems to the N/A statementRHEL-09-231200 - Added N/A for vfat file systemsRHEL-09-271035 - Added clarification/correction to check languageRHEL-09-431016 - Slight grammar changeRHEL-09-432035 - Grammar, clarificationRHEL-09-651010 - Language shuffled aroundRHEL-09-653090 - Updated command sample outputRHEL-09-654010 - corrected audit.rules syntaxRHEL-09-654025 - corrected audit.rules syntaxRHEL-09-654065 - corrected audit.rules syntaxRHEL-09-654070 - corrected audit.rules syntaxRHEL-09-654075 - corrected audit.rules syntaxRHEL-09-654080 - corrected audit.rules syntaxRHEL-09-654205 - corrected audit.rules syntaxRHEL-09-654210 - corrected audit.rules syntaxRule ID, Check, and Fix ChangesRHEL-09-211045 - Updated check to look for a drop file and fix text to prescribe the use of a drop fileRHEL-09-213080 - Updated text, but nothing materially different about the controlRHEL-09-213095 - Updated fix notes that core dumps should be disabled for all users and all non zero entries should be removedRHEL-09-231110 - Updated text uses a different command for checking, fix text has more instructions on how to implement the fixRHEL-09-231115 - Streamlined check and fixRHEL-09-231120 - Changed command used to locate mount, explicit instructions for updating the mount options immediatelyRHEL-09-232240 - Updated check command syntax, fix allows for designated system accounts besides rootRHEL-09-253050 - STIG author self identifies as a vi lover. No material change.RHEL-09-411065 - Added clarification for non-interactive (human) user accountsRHEL-09-611160 - Corrected fix syntax and check sample outputRHEL-09-611195 - Fix text prescribes using a drop file instead of modifying emergency.service directlyRHEL-09-652025 - Returns N/A caveat for systems designated as log aggregation serversRHEL-09-652055 - Fix text adds sample alternative syntaxRHEL-09-611200 - Check and fix updated to use a drop fileRHEL-09-213030 - Use a drop fileRHEL-09-213035 - Use a drop fileRHEL-09-215060 - Completely reworked so that it is N/A if TFTP is not installed, but if it is installed it needs to operate in secure modeRHEL-09-255155 - Added sudo to fix commandRHEL-09-611190 - changed flag from-nto-NRule ID, Check, and Vuln DiscussionRHEL-09-211010 - Added EOL dates for EL9 releases. Good news, Maintenance support until 31 May 3032. (LOL!)RHEL-09-214030 - GrammarRHEL-09-255130 - Added compression options explanationRHEL-09-654015 - Grammar, corrected audit.rules syntaxRHEL-09-654020 - Grammar, corrected audit.rules syntaxSysctl ChangesThese items are flagged with changes to rule id, vuln discussion, check, and fix. Collectively they appear to be sysctl parameter rules where the control specifies placing the individual fixes in different drop files under/etc/sysctl.d/. Unless otherwise noted, not much else has changed in the rule. I already noted the one with a value change earlier in this document.RHEL-09-213010RHEL-09-213015RHEL-09-213020RHEL-09-213025RHEL-09-213040RHEL-09-213070RHEL-09-213075RHEL-09-213105RHEL-09-251045RHEL-09-253010RHEL-09-253015RHEL-09-253020RHEL-09-253025RHEL-09-253030RHEL-09-253040RHEL-09-253045RHEL-09-253055RHEL-09-253060RHEL-09-253065RHEL-09-253070RHEL-09-253075RHEL-09-254010RHEL-09-254015RHEL-09-254020RHEL-09-254025RHEL-09-254030RHEL-09-254035RHEL-09-254040
Hard time separating /usr and other critical directories Hard time separating /usr and other critical directoriesu/Sxadness_v2•1 mo. agoHard time separating /usr and other critical directories
Asghar Ghori and RHCSA 10 Asghar Ghori and RHCSA 10u/CrypticTux•1 mo. agoAsghar Ghori and RHCSA 10Asghar Ghori had released a new book for RHCSA 10RHCSA Red Hat Enterprise Linux 10: Training and Exam Preparation Guide (EX200), Fourth Edition
I am thinking of pursuing RHCSA/RCHE as a hobbyist and NOT for a career. Do you recommend it? I am thinking of pursuing RHCSA/RCHE as a hobbyist and NOT for a career. Do you recommend it?u/Nelo999•1 mo. agoI am thinking of pursuing RHCSA/RCHE as a hobbyist and NOT for a career. Do you recommend it?Greetings and happy new year.I am an accountant by trade, although I should state that I was always interested in technology as a hobby and as an enjoyable past time.Generally speaking, I have a strong preference for Unix-like operating systems.I have a Linux Mint and Ubuntu personal workstation, an Android tablet, Orbis OS on my PS5 and another Dell PowerEdge workstation running both Solaris and FreeBSD.Currently, I am pursuing a CCNA and an Amateur Radio license.I am also thinking about expanding my overall knowledge even further on the Unix/Linux domain and since RHEL is dominant in professional environments, I am thinking that obtaining a relevant certification will assist me in that regard.I will probably study after working hours or during the weekends.Would you recommend that a technologically savvy hobbyist that is NOT interested in a career change, should pursue such certifications just for personal fulfillment?
Working at Redhat Working at Redhatu/IncidentWest1361•27 days agoWorking at RedhatHey all! Been working on my own kernel for about a month and have been loving the work. I'm currently a backend software engineer and eventually I think I'd like to switch over to more Kernel/Low-Level systems focused engineering roles. Anyone here currently work in that area at Red Hat? Just curious on other people's experiences and what that path is like. Thanks!
Has it always been this hard to get an interview at Red Hat? Has it always been this hard to get an interview at Red Hat?u/skaterboy98_•16 days agoHas it always been this hard to get an interview at Red Hat?I'm in the Raleigh area, and for, I would say about 2 years, I have certainly applied for every job that I am qualified for that is at Red Hat, and I have not had a single bit of luck. Nothing. Zilch. Nada. It's kind of embarrassing. Should I just stop applying?
Best approach to STIG running infrastructure Best approach to STIG running infrastructureu/NiceStrawberry1337•8 days agoBest approach to STIG running infrastructureI have recently inherited a non hardened infrastructure running a combination of Rocky and Rhel endpoints. I have taken multiple approaches by running OSCAP scans and generating remediations and applying them. The outcome has been pretty labor intensive as far as making changes to the generated ansible play books. My next approach is going to be tempting a lot of the conf files and deploying via ansible. A lot of my effort is leaning towards burning the field infrastructure side and creating a hardened template to rebuild infrastructure endpoints. Does anybody have a different approach that could help with the situation?
Can't access KBs with developer sub Can't access KBs with developer subu/dyasny•10 days agoCan't access KBs with developer subThis used to work for me before, though I haven't had to use it much in the recent years. But today, I tried to login (which worked fine) and the KBs are still blocked.I have an active developer sub, can browse the portal, but can't view the articles.Is this something new?
Help and Guidance Help and Guidanceu/Fit_Ice_7517•12 days agoHelp and GuidanceHello, I am from Spain and I am currently preparing for theRHCSA, Security+, and CySA+ certifications. I am very interested in exploringopportunities to work abroadorremotely from Spainfor international companies.I would like to learn more aboutwhat options are availableandhow I could access them, as well as any advice oncontacting companies or professionals who manage these kinds of opportunities. If anyone has experience in this area or knows how I could proceed, I would greatly appreciate your guidance or contact.Thank you very much in advance for your help!
Optimized way to pre-pull 20GB image in OpenShift without persistent DaemonSet or MachineConfig control? Optimized way to pre-pull 20GB image in OpenShift without persistent DaemonSet or MachineConfig control?u/praveen_t•11 days agoOptimized way to pre-pull 20GB image in OpenShift without persistent DaemonSet or MachineConfig control?Problem:Facing slow pod startup due to pulling a 20GB image. Cluster lacks MachineConfig access, so PinnedImageSet isn't viable. DaemonSet approach works but runs constantly, adding unnecessary costs/resources.What I've tried:ImageStreamoc import-image: Caches metadata but not full layers reliably.Considered always-on DaemonSet: Avoids due to ongoing pod overhead.Question:What's the best optimized method to pre-cache this large image across nodes? Temporary one-time DaemonSet? Kubernetes Image Puller Operator? oc-mirror for single image? Other approaches?
Has anyone managed to get RDP working between RHEL 10 and Windows 10 Pro? Has anyone managed to get RDP working between RHEL 10 and Windows 10 Pro?u/jvansickler•1 mo. agoHas anyone managed to get RDP working between RHEL 10 and Windows 10 Pro?I can see a cert prompt which pops up and disappears then an authentication error.I'm running RHEL 10.1 in a VM on a RHEL 10.1 host, through OPNsense in another VM.Alpine connects via XRDP just fine on the same host/client.The host and VM are both running FIPS-enabled.
RHEL 10 Persistent Logs: /etc vs /usr/lib confusion? RHEL 10 Persistent Logs: /etc vs /usr/lib confusion?u/c_hron•1 mo. agoRHEL 10 Persistent Logs: /etc vs /usr/lib confusion?Hey guys, quick question for anyone prepping for RHEL 10. I'm trying to make logs persistent. The guides say to edit /etc/systemd/journald.conf, but my VM only has the config file in /usr/lib/systemd/journald.conf.🥲 If you've taken the v10 exam recently, where did you make the edit? Do I just copy the file in /etc if it's missing in exam too 💀and then edit? Cheers.
Mastering DNF/YUM: Advanced Repository Management for RHEL Sysadmins Mastering DNF/YUM: Advanced Repository Management for RHEL Sysadminsu/mutedsomething•1 mo. agoMastering DNF/YUM: Advanced Repository Management for RHEL SysadminsYou can read the article here:https://medium.com/@m.salah.azim/mastering-dnf-yum-advanced-repository-management-for-rhel-centos-sysadmins-eef9d1e608b8Appreciate your claps and commentsRepository management is one of those tasks we all do, but often stick to the basics of dnf install and dnf update. ​I’ve put together a comprehensive guide on moving beyond the basics. It’s aimed at RHEL/CentOS/Rocky admins who want to streamline how they handle repos​If you’re managing production fleets or studying for your RHCSA/RHCE, I hope this serves as a solid reference. ​Link:https://medium.com/@m.salah.azim/mastering-dnf-yum-advanced-repository-management-for-rhel-centos-sysadmins-eef9d1e608b8
45 days labs expiring 45 days labs expiringu/Beautiful-Airport690•1 mo. ago45 days labs expiringHappy new year guys, hope you all are doing good.My lab will be getting expired today which i got when I purchased RHCE.The problem is that few topics are still not touched, so what could be the possible alternatives of red hat labs. Can I practice those on vms/cloud vms(cent os).
Resources for EX200 Resources for EX200u/Momo_Mason•1 mo. agoResources for EX200I need some good resources for studying for the ex200. I am already working inside of RHEL9 and reading the exam book but does not feel like it is good on prep.
RHCSA Path RHCSA Pathu/GlitchedSpreadsheet•15 days agoRHCSA PathHey everyone,I have been looking at different posts on this subreddit but none of them really address my unique situation.Education Background:Bachelors of Science in ITA+, Sec+, AZ-900Currently a help desk administrator for a business of about 225 endpoints. The environment is M365/Azure. We have one Linux VM that hosts company website which I am not allowed to access. Lets just say I wear a significant amount of hats.I want to pivot to Linux and have been working towards my RHCSA. What drew me in to getting RHCSA is the exam format. I am a hands on learner and seems most certification exams are structured by multiple choice.My daily driver at home is Bazzite for my gaming desktop, Linux Mint on family laptop, and I have a machine that I have RedHat on where I practice labs from Sanders course on Oreilly.Questions I have with the above context:Am I shooting myself in the foot by pivoting to Linux even though I do not have work experience in Linux?What paths should I look for after obtaining my RHCSA?Do I go straight for RHCE after or do I need to land a Linux job first and gain some experience? (Don't want to throw red flags on resume having these certs back to back)Thank you for your time
New Kernel breaking BIOS boot? New Kernel breaking BIOS boot?u/xafish•27 days agoNew Kernel breaking BIOS boot?I recently patched ~100RHEL 8.10systems using ansible dnf.The vast majority of these are UEFI-based and upgraded without issue. However, I hadtwo virtual machines that still boot in legacy BIOS mode, and both failed immediately after patching.Important context:These arevirtual machinesNo VM-level changeswere made (firmware, boot order, disk config, etc.)No manual grub or bootloader changes outside of what the update appliedSymptoms after reboot:VM no longer boots from diskImmediately falls back to PXE bootDisk is still present in the BIOS boot orderNo valid boot target is detectedLooks like the bootloader / MBR was wiped or rendered unusableThese were standard RHEL installs (no exotic partitioning, no dual boot).I’m trying to figure out:I know legacy BIOS is becoming rare, but these systems were stable and supported prior to patching.Any similar experiences, or Red Hat KB references would be appreciated. Mostly trying to understand whether this is a known issue or an edge case.UPDATE: was able to recover critical data by mounting the vmdk to another VM and now all services are back up and running on a new VM (UEFI). Going to try a recovery disk next week to try and diagnose the cause.
Got my RHCSA Got my RHCSAu/AbdullahData•1 mo. agoGot my RHCSAI got my RHCSA yesterday with 257/300 (the rootless container missed me up lol), this sub has helped me a lot so thanks ig.I mainly studied from “RHCSA Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9: Training and Exam Preparation Guide (EX200), Third Edition” book by Asghar Ghori. This book is rich and is very good for whoever doesn’t have prior experience with linux in general.I also watched some of Sander Van Vugt course videos which was helpful as well.I’d love to help if anyone has questions
Setting Up Bootc with Red Hat Satellite: A Guide to Bootable Container Images Setting Up Bootc with Red Hat Satellite: A Guide to Bootable Container Imagesu/waldirio•8 days agoSetting Up Bootc with Red Hat Satellite: A Guide to Bootable Container Images
Finally passed RHCSA! Finally passed RHCSA!u/kajunseasoning•1 mo. agoFinally passed RHCSA!Woo hoo! I finally passed my RHCSA exam and I did version 9.3 instead of 10 since I had a lot of familiarity with a lot of the concepts in 9.3 and the containers.I used RHLS to study and just did the labs over and over and used ChatGPT to clarify anything that didn’t quite make sense to me.  So glad I passed this exam because I’d been stressing about it for months! I will be studying for RHCE next and I hope to take that in the next 2-3 months since I’ve been using Ansible for about a year.
Got my RHCSA ! Got my RHCSA !u/Salty_Nothing_5609•1 mo. agoGot my RHCSA !Hello all ive  just passed the EX200 v 9.3 and  got certified as RHCSA from the first attempt.score :300/300 :)if u ve any questions, suggestions or opinions  contact me !!
I need help with installing RHEL 7. I need help with installing RHEL 7.u/JealousAlbatross5080•13 days agoI need help with installing RHEL 7.I need help with installing RHEL 7.r/linuxquestions•13 days agoI need help with installing RHEL 7.I need help with finding the ISO, I need it for my amd e-350 laptop because even latest debian does not work well, and there are rhel drivers in amd website, so I think I can try to install it.11comments
Webcams recommendations Webcams recommendationsu/genesis9440•1 mo. agoWebcams recommendationsI need to buy a webcam for an exam next month. Any recommendations for one that's reliable and affordable?Thanks!!
Redhat satellite package download Redhat satellite package downloadu/Yhwach_1505•18 days agoRedhat satellite package downloadHi guys,I want to learn about the red hat satellite. but it is not possible from developer subscription. Is there any other way, that I can get the packages offline and put them in by machine and install satellites. I don't want to spend money so, any other way. Thanks for the suggestions.
Bash Hacks: 8 Powerful Commands to Simplify Your Linux Workflow Bash Hacks: 8 Powerful Commands to Simplify Your Linux Workflowu/waldirio•1 mo. agoBash Hacks: 8 Powerful Commands to Simplify Your Linux Workflow
"Comparable work experience" requirement for RHCSA exam "Comparable work experience" requirement for RHCSA examu/rrdein•23 days ago"Comparable work experience" requirement for RHCSA examI have vast experience with Linux, but most of it was relating to my own personal projects.  Is this a prerequisite that Red Hat requires you to prove before taking the RHCSA exam, or can I just sign up and take the exam?
Podman: Quadlets or Systemd generate Podman: Quadlets or Systemd generateu/c7b3rx•1 mo. agoPodman: Quadlets or Systemd generateHello everyone,I am preparing for EX188 I am a bit consfused about containerzied systemd service how do you install that, do you use Quadlets (a newer fancy approach) or you use podman generate systemd command to generate systemd file, is systemd method still valid in newer versions of podman because it throws a warning that this command is deprecated, I am using Sander's EX188 preparation course and that seems a bit outdated but still useful.I know I can't ask about the exam but if anyone has RHLS or newer DO188 Student guide can he/she search about quadlets in it, is it in the contents of DO188? just a quick search would be sufficient.
Consulting Interview Timeline Consulting Interview Timelineu/usrboss•14 days agoConsulting Interview TimelineInterviewed for a Senior Consultant position over 2 weeks ago, and even after a follow up email the recruiter, have heard nothing from anyone. As this is not the first time I have been in limbo of the Red Hat interview process, I’m curious why communication always seems to be nonexistent and if there is any advice or tips for the processes. The waiting game is a killer. Thanks.
RHCE - preparing RHCE - preparingu/pavel1024•14 days agoRHCE - preparingHello!“What materials do you recommend for RHCE? Now it’s AU294. Are there any materials worth paying attention to?” AU2.5 or RH294?
Did opensource.com move elsewhere? Did opensource.com move elsewhere?u/thomasbbbb•1 mo. agoDid opensource.com move elsewhere?A few years ago I used to receive newsletters from this site and read articles. But it's silent for some time now, has the website been replaced?
Struggling with RHCSA prep – am I studying the wrong way? Struggling with RHCSA prep – am I studying the wrong way?u/shadisharawy•1 mo. agoStruggling with RHCSA prep – am I studying the wrong way?Hi guys,I wanted to check with you what thecorrectway to study for the RHCSA is, because I’m pretty sure I’m doing something wrong and it’s costing me a lot of time and effort.I’ve been studying for RHCSA for about4 months now, while also working9 hours a day. Despite that, I’ve been very dedicated and consistent with my study time outside of work.Here’s what I’ve done so far:Studied fromSander van Vugt’s book and videosRead the bookfrom beginning to endCompletedall the practice labs, except the exam practice labs (I’m saving those for the end when I feel 100% ready)The problem is that when I tried to review everything, I realized I had forgotten a lot of topics. I had to go back to the book just to remember what I already studied. Itiseasier the second time, but it’s extremely exhausting to reread the book, and at the same time I feel like most of what I learned didn’t really stick.This is honestly discouraging, and I’m not sure if my study method is the issue or if this is just normal.So my questions are:How areyoustudying for RHCSA?What worked for you to actually retain the material?What is the correct or most effective way to prepare for this exam?I’d really appreciate hearing your experiences and advice. Thanks in advance 🙏
I will retire my tech career from RedHat itself once i will join it. I will retire my tech career from RedHat itself once i will join it.u/Wooden_Departure1285•1 mo. agoI will retire my tech career from RedHat itself once i will join it.Hey everyone, first of all, Happy New Year!I am a recent graduate and an active contributor to a project whose codebase is used in OpenShift Virtualization.In my free time, I like to open GitHub, explore issues, raise PRs, review other people’s PRs, and participate in their discussions.I really love Kubernetes development, especially building custom operators. Seeing my passion and continuous involvement in open source, I strongly believe Red Hat is the place where I should belong. I am not interested in other companies.I am looking forward to joining Red Hat as a Junior Software Engineer or Intern. If any hiring manager or team lead would like to give me an opportunity to test my skills and passion for Red Hat, I would be more than happy.Note: I am a capable and highly motivated person  Please don't say apply from career page because I am not eligible to apply from career page reason they don't hire to my country.   That's the reason I am writing this Post.
Developing for RHEL and derivatives with Gemini Code Assist Developing for RHEL and derivatives with Gemini Code Assistu/louisPTC•14 days agoDeveloping for RHEL and derivatives with Gemini Code AssistHey Red Hat developers, after I wrote my article on RHEL and Github Copilot for Coffee and Code magazine over on Medium I wrote another article on how to encourage proper RHEL behaviors in Gemini Code Assist. It seems  to  really help improve my experience overall. As with my previous articles, there is a sample configuration that gets you Red Hat-behaviors automatically. I'd love to hear other suggestions on how the experience could be improved? Thanks in advance!https://medium.com/techtrends-digest/how-to-configure-gemini-code-assist-for-rhel-development-8607cc0b5b65
can we also promote our youtube content here? can we also promote our youtube content here?u/c7b3rx•15 days agocan we also promote our youtube content here?Is promotional videos allowed in this subreddit?
How long to study for the exam? How long to study for the exam?u/Illustrious-Pop-8906•1 mo. agoHow long to study for the exam?From 0 Linux experience to getting exam ready, how long would it take you to pass the exam?
What's New in OpenShift 4.21 - Key Updates and New Features. Feb 3 2026 @10am EST What's New in OpenShift 4.21 - Key Updates and New Features. Feb 3 2026 @10am ESTu/Rhopegorn•17 days ago•Brand AffiliateWhat's New in OpenShift 4.21 - Key Updates and New Features. Feb 3 2026 @10am ESTWhat's New in OpenShift 4.21 - Key Updates and New Features. Feb 3 2026 @10am ESTr/openshift•17 days ago•Brand AffiliateWhat's New in OpenShift 4.21 - Key Updates and New Features. Feb 3 2026 @10am EST27upvotes·3comments
what happens after trial period is over what happens after trial period is overu/Doodle4554•1 mo. agowhat happens after trial period is overI recently downloaded redhat 9.6 for my RHCSA exam prep & setup. Yesterday, I got an email from Redhat saying I have 30 days left for the trial period end date. What does this mean? I wont be able to start my machines or wont be able to get any updates and downloads?
preparing for rhcsa preparing for rhcsau/Lost_Vermicelli_3179•16 days agopreparing for rhcsaWhile reading through asghar ghori's rhcsa 9 book (signed up for 9), I read this in the 3 chapter of his book on links:There are two ways to create file and directory links in RHEL, and they are referred to as hard links and soft links.Links are created between files or between directories, but not between a file and a directory.I dont understand what that second sentence means in that paragraph.  How do I create links between files and between directories only?  confusing really.
OpenStack Services on OpenShift network planning OpenStack Services on OpenShift network planningu/openstacker•1 mo. agoOpenStack Services on OpenShift network planningOpenStack Services on OpenShift network planningr/openshift•1 mo. agoOpenStack Services on OpenShift network planningI'm planning a new RH OpenStack Svcs on OpenShift 18.0 deployment, and this is my first time building OCP in any form. My thinking is to build a "Compact Control Plane" with the network using small range of IPs on the OpenStack External (or OpenStack Provisioning aka 'control plane') network.How many routable IP addresses do I really need for OCP with a 3 node compact cluster? I think the answer is 5 but would like some feedback to be sure:1 for each server1 for API1 for IngressAm I missing anything? Do I need a range of 10-20 IPs perhaps?Do I need a dedicated layer-2 provisioning network for OCP?3upvotes
What kind of PAM solutions are used at red hat? and do these solutions take into account platforms like ocp and aap? What kind of PAM solutions are used at red hat? and do these solutions take into account platforms like ocp and aap?u/ok_ok_ok_ok_ok_okay•1 mo. agoWhat kind of PAM solutions are used at red hat? and do these solutions take into account platforms like ocp and aap?
RHCSA in 2 months? RHCSA in 2 months?u/Stretch_gang•2 mo. agoRHCSA in 2 months?Hello all,I had my employer pay for my RHCSA voucher and it expires on February 19. I have no experience in linux, but have about 2 years experience in IT, and just passed the CompTIA Security+. Is it possible to be able to study in less than 2 months and pass the exam?
Sander textbook vs O’Reilly Sander textbook vs O’Reillyu/Axiom_of_Tron•2 mo. agoSander textbook vs O’ReillyAs per title, I need a little help in deciding if I should do either Sander’s RHEL textbook, pay for the O Reilly subscription, or would both help me? I was lazy in preparing so I’m gonna go into overdrive studying so I can get my cert asap but I really wanna make sure I know the material. Any tips would be much appreciated.Question Update: For those that have passed, would you recommend learning RHEL10 since they removed the containers and some steps from SELinux. It seems contra intuitive to learn something that’s no longer used but at the same time I would guess most of Enterprise haven’t fully switched over from RHEL9.
Has anyone used RHCSA Exam Complete Course – Step-by-Step Hands-On Practical Guide by DexTutor? Has anyone used RHCSA Exam Complete Course – Step-by-Step Hands-On Practical Guide by DexTutor?u/Illustrious-Pop-8906•2 mo. agoHas anyone used RHCSA Exam Complete Course – Step-by-Step Hands-On Practical Guide by DexTutor?I know this may be a shot in the dark, but has anyone used the YouTube video series by DexTutor? If so, is it a good source? Or am I better off using something else?
Promo code Promo codeu/PairAlternative9259•2 mo. agoPromo codeXG3V5KQ6
Need advice about RHCE RH294 Need advice about RHCE RH294u/zer0cold321•9 days agoNeed advice about RHCE RH294Hi everyone, I’d really appreciate some advice from people with experience.I got my RHCSA last week and have just started working on the RHCE course. I’m still in the first few chapters, but one question has been giving me a headache these past days.Am I supposed to know every Ansible module and how to work with it? There seem to be so many of them already.For context, I currently work in tech support, but I don’t have any prior hands-on Linux work experience.Thanks in advance!
Appreciation Post: I Love Red Hat Enterprise Linux Appreciation Post: I Love Red Hat Enterprise Linuxu/Smarties_Mc_Flurry•2 mo. agoAppreciation Post: I Love Red Hat Enterprise LinuxSeriously, I think RHEL 10 is really an amazing OS, and I feel confident that I’ve finally settled on it as my new daily driver. I’ve been a Windows guy my whole life, and I’ve dabbled in other distros such as Mint and Lubuntu, but RHEL just beats them all in terms of features and general aesthetic (which may come as a surprise to many; I just generally prefer a more simplistic look).I love RHEL because of how deliberately professional it feels. While Mint and Lubuntu were fun to explore and learn basic terminal commands on, RHEL feels like it was actually designed with the intention of being used by engineers and developers, which shouldn’t be a surprise based on the philosophy and technologies of Red Hat as a whole. I’ve been having fun just learning Linux and software more thoroughly, knowing I can develop on a stable platform with extremely low chance of anything breaking, other than through operator error of course.On that note, I really admire the stability and support this OS has. People often argue that RHEL’s stability comes at the price of having very little access to many useful and popular apps and whatnot, but I don’t think they realize that snap pretty much gives you everything you could otherwise need and its pretty darn easy to set up too. Not only that, but GNOME is just such a pleasant desktop experience and makes navigating the environment so easy and fun.So yeah, Im in love with this OS and I can’t wait to keep using it. As a CS student, RHEL actually makes learning the intricacies of Linux so much fun. Huge appreciation to the distro that actually makes me a better student by using it, I’m surprised there isn’t a bigger userbase for it. Thanks for listening to my TED Talk
How do you actually use man pages ? and I forget everything fast — is this normal ? How do you actually use man pages ? and I forget everything fast — is this normal ?u/shadisharawy•2 mo. agoHow do you actually use man pages ? and I forget everything fast — is this normal ?Hey everyone,I’m Studying for RHCSA Exam and I’m honestly struggling withman pages.When I openman <command>, I feel like I’m staring at a wall of text. I can’t quickly find thecommand syntax, and for a lot of commands I can’t find clearexampleseither (or I don’t understand what I’m reading). I end up Googling, watching YouTube, or going back to my book.The other thing: my memory is basicallyfish memory. While I’m studying, I understand things and I can finish the exercises. But once I move to another topic and come back later to review, I feel like I’m starting from scratch — like I have to re-watch videos and re-read chapters to rebuild it all again.So I wanted to ask:How do you read a man page efficiently?Like what parts do you focus on first to get the syntax and the “how do I actually use this” info?Where do you find examplesif the man page doesn’t have any?Is itnormalto forget like this when learning, even if you understood it earlier?Any tips to make things “stick” so I don’t feel like I’m resetting to zero every time?If you have a workflow (like specific commands/flags you always use, or a way you take notes), I’d love to hear it. I’m trying not to get discouraged but yeah… man pages are humbling 😅
EX280 prep: OpenShift 4.12 resources still relevant for the 4.18 exam? EX280 prep: OpenShift 4.12 resources still relevant for the 4.18 exam?u/Ok_Search9502•2 mo. agoEX280 prep: OpenShift 4.12 resources still relevant for the 4.18 exam?Hi everyone,i’m currently preparing for the EX280 OpenShift exam and I had a small question.i found some really useful resources based on OpenShift 4.12, but from what I understand the exam is now aligned with OpenShift 4.18.for those who have taken the exam recently or are also preparing;  are there any major changes between 4.12 and 4.18 that I should be aware of ? do you think the 4.12 resources are still relevant and aligned with the exam objectives, or should I focus on newer material?Thanks in advance for your help
thm tasks/room/module as a resume project thm tasks/room/module as a resume projectu/IceDry3664•17 days agothm tasks/room/module as a resume projectthm tasks/room/module as a resume projectr/tryhackme•17 days agothm tasks/room/module as a resume projectI am currently enrolled in thm soc l1 path, and I dont have any projects or intern in my resume. so, I was thinking that can I add some of the hands on lab task from thm (like pcap analysis, capstone challenges, or siem rooms) as a project in my resume, after proper documentation.2upvotes
Ultimate goal is not FAANG but it’s RedHat Ultimate goal is not FAANG but it’s RedHatu/Wooden_Departure1285•2 mo. agoUltimate goal is not FAANG but it’s RedHatHey, everyone I am writing this message to Red Hat. First thing first your company logo has it’s own aura and I really love Red Hat and the way they work on open source. I tried my best to start my career at Red Hat but they don’t hire to my country. It’s been around 9 months I started my tech career and currently working with all the stuff that comes under CNCF.I am very obsessed with Red Hat, may be I will be there soon but not sure how? May be relocating to another country.Note: I am contributor to the project that is used in open shift virtualization. Currently, on a process to donate one project to org that own above project
New to REDHAT academy New to REDHAT academyu/Heywhaddupitsyagurl•19 days agoNew to REDHAT academyI'm brand new to Red Hat Academy, I'm taking this for my Linux class in college and I really don't have prior IT experience. I am in week two of m second semester and am already so lost at this? Does anyone have experience with red hat academy? The answers are locked okay, I'm supposed to know them, but I have never learned how to create a file in Linux or do anything so I'm already behind the second week of school. I've tried youtube but there's no academy videos and my professor just isn't really that helpful. What can I do because honestly I'm relying on AI to not fail right now. I'm smart but I am so lost. What can I do to understand?
What should I expect in a SWE internship? What should I expect in a SWE internship?u/diggyzar•2 mo. agoWhat should I expect in a SWE internship?Hey gang,Just accepted an offer to intern at Red Hat next summer.  Is there anything I should expect?  What should I do to excel in my role?
Does anyone have a 15% referral code they're willing to share? Does anyone have a 15% referral code they're willing to share?u/Programmer_JS•19 days agoDoes anyone have a 15% referral code they're willing to share?Hi guys!I'm currently studying for the RHCSA and getting ready to take the exam in a couple of days. Does anyone have any spare codes they're not planning on using soon?I'm self funding the exam, so any codes would be a big help! I'll be sure to pay it forward after I pass, thanks in advance!Edit: Thanks to the kind redditor who dm'd me the code!
Complete Ansible certification within a month? Zero experience.  Is it doable? Complete Ansible certification within a month? Zero experience.  Is it doable?u/fubardad•21 days agoComplete Ansible certification within a month? Zero experience.  Is it doable?Ive been in IT for awhile but I have been tasked with completing the Ansible certification test before the end of the quarter.  I have basic experience with Ansible and if I were to start today... is it "normally/average" doable within a month?I just finished the Udemy video (Ansible for beginners) but I feel its more of a sales video than actual consultant/engineering level learning.  So, Im trying to find more options to knock it out asap... its bonus time and that will be one of my tasks.  TIA
RHCE Prep Tips RHCE Prep Tipsu/Mysterious-Ad449•21 days agoRHCE Prep TipsHey guys,I'm taking my RHCE exam on Feb 3rd. As far as prep goes, I've finished the official course and I'm currently doing daily labs and watching tutorials.I’m looking for some sanity checks: What did you find most difficult? Were there any surprises on the exam that the official course didn't prepare you for?I'm open to any tips, tricks, or additional resource recommendations (videos/courses) you might have.
Red Hat SSO – Multiple AD LDAPS Configuration Red Hat SSO – Multiple AD LDAPS Configurationu/maxcoder88•2 mo. agoRed Hat SSO – Multiple AD LDAPS ConfigurationHello,We have completed the required configurations on the Active Directory side for LDAPS.My question is on the Red Hat SSO side:How can I configuremultiple LDAPS connections(for example, multiple domain controllers or LDAP endpoints) in Red Hat SSO?Is it possible to define more than one LDAPS URL, and if so, what is the recommended configuration approach (failover / load balancing)?Any guidance or examples would be appreciated.Thank you.
Expert Tips for Cleaning Up RH Satellite Server: Removing Unused Content and Improving Performance Expert Tips for Cleaning Up RH Satellite Server: Removing Unused Content and Improving Performanceu/waldirio•2 mo. agoExpert Tips for Cleaning Up RH Satellite Server: Removing Unused Content and Improving Performance
Best free backup solution for mixed environment (On-prem + VPS: Hostinger & Contabo) Best free backup solution for mixed environment (On-prem + VPS: Hostinger & Contabo)u/NewtBeautiful398•20 days agoBest free backup solution for mixed environment (On-prem + VPS: Hostinger & Contabo)Hi everyone,I’m looking for recommendations forfree / open-source backup solutionsthat I can implement on my servers.EnvironmentOn-prem Linux servers(physical and virtual)VPS hosted on HostingerVPS hosted on ContaboFull root / sudo access on all serversData includes:System configuration filesApplication and service dataWeb contentDatabases (MySQL / PostgreSQL)RequirementsNo licensing cost (free / open-source)Secure (encryption preferred)Suitable for backing up multiple serversAutomated backups (cron/scheduling)Reliable restore processPractical for real production useQuestionWhatfree backup solutions or toolswould you recommend for this type of environment, and why?Thanks in advance for your advice.
RCHSA 9 vs 10 RCHSA 9 vs 10u/CryptoInsiderZ•2 mo. agoRCHSA 9 vs 10I got this feedback from perplexity and I am not sure which one I would endup choosing, I am considering buying a book soon, so which one should I go with 9 or 10? The differences might be minor but I would still like the opinion of people more experienced than me.
Red Hat Remote Exam Red Hat Remote Examu/OMAR_AHMED_01•26 days agoRed Hat Remote ExamCould you please share any issues you faced during a Red Hat remote exam?I’ve already run the official remote exam compatibility check and passed all requirements — is that generally sufficient?My laptop does not have any OS installed and boots directly from USB (Fedora live image). Would this setup cause any issues during the exam?
Having trouble booking the RHCSA in Jamaica Having trouble booking the RHCSA in Jamaicau/VyseCommander•2 mo. agoHaving trouble booking the RHCSA in JamaicaThe website doesn't give me the option for an exam center or to do it online but both google and ai searches tells me its available in Jamaica. Redhat customer service hasn't been helpful via email, is there anyone from redhat on this subreddit?
Failed EX-432 Exam twice with Zero Marks Failed EX-432 Exam twice with Zero Marksu/No-Cup1705•26 days agoFailed EX-432 Exam twice with Zero MarksHi Guys,I have failed ex-432 exam (Redhat Certified Specialist in Advanced Cluster Management) twice in a row that too with 0 marks in every exam portion.Right. I dont even know what went wrong because I verify all answers from ACM console and the managed clusters, everything looks great to me.Can somebody shine light on this. Thanks.
RHCE v10 or v9 RHCE v10 or v9u/pavel1024•24 days agoRHCE v10 or v9Is there a big difference between RH294 and AU294? Which one should I choose?
RHCSA/RHCE renewal strategy: Upgrade exams or go OpenShift? RHCSA/RHCE renewal strategy: Upgrade exams or go OpenShift?u/techtransit•16 days agoRHCSA/RHCE renewal strategy: Upgrade exams or go OpenShift?I’m looking for guidance from experienced Red Hat professionals. I’m currentlyRHCSA and RHCE certified from earlier versions (RHEL 7 through RHEL 9). I was also certified as aRed Hat Certified Specialist in Containers and Kubernetes, though that certification expired last year. MyRHCSA and RHCE are still current for about one more year.To keep both certifications current in the best possible way, I’d appreciate advice on the right path forward. Should Iupgrade RHCSA/RHCE directly to the latest version, or would pursuingRed Hat Certified OpenShift Administratorbe a better option that keeps both RHCSA and RHCE current as well?I’m specifically looking forauthentic, experience-based adviceon certification strategy and long-term value—no exam details. Thanks in advance for your guidance.
Study partner/Group Study partner/Groupu/kyotaka-Ryomai•2 mo. agoStudy partner/GroupHey everyone, is anyone looking to start a serious study group or be a study partner for RHCSA v10 (8 weeks then testing)Start would be January 1st (time zone EST about 2hrs a day weekdays 6/7-8/9pm  and 4hrs on weekends)Serious inquiries only, Atleast have Linux experience at its basic level.
Nissan Motor Co. Ltd. says thousands of customers exposed in Red Hat breach Nissan Motor Co. Ltd. says thousands of customers exposed in Red Hat breachu/ngurrunj•2 mo. agoNissan Motor Co. Ltd. says thousands of customers exposed in Red Hat breachr/technews•2 mo. agoNissan Motor Co. Ltd. says thousands of customers exposed in Red Hat breachhttps://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/nissan-says-thousands-of-customers-exposed-in-red-hat-breach/479upvotes•48comments
Discount Code Discount Codeu/Lanky_Pea6469•1 mo. agoDiscount CodeI got one before, so wanted to pay it forward.LKXCGN4JGood luck!
15% off promo codes 15% off promo codesu/SCIP10001•2 mo. ago15% off promo codesJGS6AIVLEnjoy!
voucher voucheru/CryptoInsiderZ•2 mo. agovoucherI just browsed through 7 websites and I still cannot find a way to buy a voucher for EX200, I went to all the partners websites and none of them seem to offer a buy now voucher, they want to sell me a course. Anyone else experienced this? (US)
Red Hat Certification Difficulty - What's Your Experience? Red Hat Certification Difficulty - What's Your Experience?u/elmindzz•2 mo. agoRed Hat Certification Difficulty - What's Your Experience?Hi everyone,I'm planning my Red Hat certification path and would love to hear from those who have taken multiple Red Hat exams. I'm trying to understand which certifications are considered the most difficult and how they rank in terms of challenge.Questions for the community:Which Red Hat exam did you find most difficult and why?How would you rank the exams you've taken from easiest to hardest?What made certain exams particularly challenging (time pressure, breadth of topics, hands-on complexity)?Any advice for someone planning their certification journey?I'm especially interested in hearing about the jump in difficulty from RHCSA to RHCE, and how the specialist exams compare.Looking forward to hearing your experiences and insights!Thanks in advance!
Is it worth choosing RHEL (Linux Admin) roles in 2026 as a fresher or with 1-2 years experience? Is it worth choosing RHEL (Linux Admin) roles in 2026 as a fresher or with 1-2 years experience?u/NidoAnhsirk•21 days agoIs it worth choosing RHEL (Linux Admin) roles in 2026 as a fresher or with 1-2 years experience?Is it worth choosing RHEL (Linux Admin) roles in 2026 as a fresher or with 1-2 years experience?r/IndiaCareers•21 days agoIs it worth choosing RHEL (Linux Admin) roles in 2026 as a fresher or with 1-2 years experience?Is there any scope for growth in this sector and: if yes, please chart out potential career paths; if no, can you please explain why?
What do i fill in "department" section while registering on the site as a student? What do i fill in "department" section while registering on the site as a student?u/kidbehindyou•2 mo. agoWhat do i fill in "department" section while registering on the site as a student?sorry if this is the wrong place to ask - there is no option available that says something like n/a or student. Its also a required field to fill so im not sure how to proceed. I already put in student in the "company" section. here's an image if that would help:https://postimg.cc/670jNYN6
Podman and flatpak rhsca does it appear ? V10 ex200 Podman and flatpak rhsca does it appear ? V10 ex200u/Ok-Berry-2727•21 days agoPodman and flatpak rhsca does it appear ? V10 ex200After reading the objectives it seems that podman is no longer on it. Should I still study it for the exam. I do see flatpak ln the objective so should I focus on that instead. These are the only part of the exam that I’m worried about since I haven’t used them as much and forget the syntax when dealing with them. Such as making podman container a systemd service or setting the port and etc within the container.Are these topic really a big deal on the exam should I be worried ? . If so which command are the most important for those task.?
Satellite as Container Registry: How to Use Podman to Consume Containers Satellite as Container Registry: How to Use Podman to Consume Containersu/waldirio•15 days agoSatellite as Container Registry: How to Use Podman to Consume Containers
Changing IP of FreeIPA host seemed to have broken host. Changing IP of FreeIPA host seemed to have broken host.u/HauntingDebt6336•22 days agoChanging IP of FreeIPA host seemed to have broken host.Changing IP of FreeIPA host seemed to have broken host.r/FreeIPA•22 days agoChanging IP of FreeIPA host seemed to have broken host.RHEL 9 FreeIPA setup.We have the system IP'd to the test network we are on and works fine.The IP to be used by the system in prod though is different.I moved the system from test to prod and re-iped and it webGUI would not respond at all. Just went through NetworkManager GUI to simply change IP/gateway and it seemed to hose the system completely.When running FreeIPA install I didn't setup any DNS for the system so I don't think that's the cause, the hostname renamed the same. The /etc/hosts file was changed to reflect the new IP but still nothing would respond though ipactl status showed all services running.kinit on the system also failed.3upvotes·5comments
5 Use-cases with Ansible Automation Platform MCP Server - YouTube 5 Use-cases with Ansible Automation Platform MCP Server - YouTubeu/seanx820•24 days ago5 Use-cases with Ansible Automation Platform MCP Server - YouTube5 Use-cases with Ansible Automation Platform MCP Server - YouTuber/ansible•24 days ago5 Use-cases with Ansible Automation Platform MCP Server - YouTube27upvotes·1comment
After RHCSA After RHCSAu/Muawiya_Umaui•2 mo. ago•Brand AffiliateAfter RHCSAHello team,For someone that has just obtained their RHCSA certificate and want to find a job, what are the obstacles they may face and what do you recommend them to do to find a job, let’s say as a sys admin.
After RHCSA After RHCSAu/pavel1024•16 days agoAfter RHCSAAfter RHCSA I think about:- Red Hat Certified Specialist in Containers- Red Hat Certified EngineerWhat will be the best option? In future i want to pass something with kubernetes.
Redhat Code Redhat Codeu/AnalysisGold3131•23 days agoRedhat CodeRedhat Coder/openshift•23 days agoRedhat CodeHello,Below is my promotional code. I won’t be using it, so I’m leaving it here. First come, first served.9M6QKRB47upvotes·3comments
Migrating from NIS to IdM in a mixed environment Migrating from NIS to IdM in a mixed environmentu/Little_Lawyer_2414•25 days agoMigrating from NIS to IdM in a mixed environmentHi all!First a little bit of background on me and my experience: I have been working with Linux for more than 30 years, mainly as CAD/EDA support in the semiconductor industry. Last year I have been asked to take over the role as Linux admin in our team (between 10-20 users). The previous admin has left the company, but we did a good handover. I did one of the courses from Sander van der Vught that prepares for the RHCSA exam.Now the issue. The Linux environments consists of seven, mostly multi-purpose, VMs. It is a bit outdated, we are using RH8, RH7 and even one VM with RH6. I am planning to add a few VMs with RH9, and to slowly migrate stuff from old to new servers, but keeping the old servers for legacy projects.One of the main issues, from what I understand, is that we are using NIS, but that is not supported anymore on RH9.  The recommended replacement is IdM, so I am considering that. I think I have three options:Keep NIS for older systems, move RHEL 9 to IdM (Downside: Mixed identity sources. Upside: No forced change on old servers.)Migrate older servers from NIS to IdM (Downside: big change, so I guess some risk involved. Upside: best longterm solution).Run an NIS gateway/bridge (as far as I understand, IdM can publish NIS maps for legacy systems while storing data in LDAP/Kerberos).I would highly appreciate it if anybody who has experience with this kind of migrations, provides some feedback on the different options, pitfalls, etc.!
Podman Essentials: Images, Registries, and Containers Explained Podman Essentials: Images, Registries, and Containers Explainedu/waldirio•1 mo. agoPodman Essentials: Images, Registries, and Containers Explained
Successfully installed RHEL with a free developer subscription account in order to tinker and get accustomed with it. First impressions are generally positive, the Anaconda installer is easy to navigate through and GNOME 47 is pretty easy to use. Successfully installed RHEL with a free developer subscription account in order to tinker and get accustomed with it. First impressions are generally positive, the Anaconda installer is easy to navigate through and GNOME 47 is pretty easy to use.u/Nelo999•27 days agoSuccessfully installed RHEL with a free developer subscription account in order to tinker and get accustomed with it. First impressions are generally positive, the Anaconda installer is easy to navigate through and GNOME 47 is pretty easy to use.RHEL appears to be way easier to set up and use than the likes of Arch Linux, EndeavourOS, CachyOS, Gentoo, Slackware, Void Linux or NixOS.In spite of the fact that it is geared towards enterprise usage and related environments.Although I am aware that most sysadmins run it without a GUI in those instances.But for beginners and novice users, that approach is pretty helpful.Keep in mind that I have already tried Fedora, which also worked fine and was pretty easy to use as well.
EX415 practical questions ? EX415 practical questions ?u/MembershipAny8252•27 days agoEX415 practical questions ?I would like to know if there is a source for exam-style questions. I have covered the topics, but I can’t find enough resources or practice exercises to prepare for the exam questions.
Do you need to already be a sysadmin to get RHCSA certified? Do you need to already be a sysadmin to get RHCSA certified?u/banned_account69•10 days agoDo you need to already be a sysadmin to get RHCSA certified?I was browsing the red hat site and it appears to have a prerequisite of taking their $7500 course or being an experienced sysadmin. I don't remember this exam having any prerequisites before. Is this something new or are they just trying to trick people into buying the course. Do they have something to where you just become an associate like how isc does?
Event-Driven Ansible for VMware or Huawei DC and Physical RHEL server Event-Driven Ansible for VMware or Huawei DC and Physical RHEL serveru/EddieThomassrk•2 mo. agoEvent-Driven Ansible for VMware or Huawei DC and Physical RHEL serverI'm pretty new in this level and I'm currently exploring what was the practical EDA we can deploy to use. Some even manual command line more effective than using AAP but need to know how does everyone using this into VMware or Huawei DC and Physical RHEL server?Physical RHEL servers:In real production environments, do teams typically automate the full bare-metal lifecycle (iDRAC/ILO setup, RAID, firmware, Kickstart install, and post-install hardening) with Ansible/AAP, or is part of this still handled manually or with vendor tools?VMware / Huawei DC:What are the most common repeatable tasks you actually automate in daily operations (for example datastore expansion, live migration, host patching), and are these usually run via playbooks, AAP workflows, or event-driven triggers?#learningcurve
Redhat Redhatu/Ok-Star-3304•28 days agoRedhatThanks everyone for responding.  First time using reddit.  Unsure of proper procedures.  Was mostly wondering if anyone else had a similar experience
Ex 188 Sander course review Ex 188 Sander course reviewu/Both-Designer7080•24 days agoEx 188 Sander course reviewhey i am familiar with docker so is this course cover everything . if anybody has taken this course please share it .
Preparing for RHCSA Preparing for RHCSAu/Infamous_Syrup6822•2 mo. agoPreparing for RHCSAHi guys, sorry if its been asked a lot but i have searched around and i am unable to find a definitive answer. I'm planning to take rhcsa exam around jan next year, will the rhcsa exam be testing rhel 9 or 10? Thanks!
rhsmctl - command-line interface to RHSM API rhsmctl - command-line interface to RHSM APIu/miralgj•23 days agorhsmctl - command-line interface to RHSM APIhttps://github.com/KSU-Linux/rhsmctl
Passed RHCE - some honest takeaways while it's still fresh Passed RHCE - some honest takeaways while it's still freshu/Hympingboy•2 mo. agoPassed RHCE - some honest takeaways while it's still freshThis exam felt very different from RHCSA. Even though you get an hour more, time was a real pressure. A big part of that for me came from taking the exam remotely at home.I was somewhat paranoid with the preparation. I bought a new Logitech webcam, a 10m ethernet cable straight to my main router, disabled Wi-Fi on router, upgraded my RAM from 16 to 32GB, bought a new wired mouse, and ran multiple network tests beforehand. Everything checked out fine.Despite all tht, the exam env was extremely laggy. Typing a single char would often result in many appearing at once, and hitting backspace could wipe out a large blocks of text. This happened VERY frequently and wasted a lot of time. When you're already troubleshooting under pressure, the lag adds anxiety and makes every task feel 10 steps longer. I literally finished at the last min of the 4 hours. So just a heads-up for future candidates: IMO, remote exam should really be a last resort if you have a choice.My company agreed to sponsor the official in-person RHLS course. IMO, it does teach useful things especially the proper and supported way of doing tasks, along with some updated practices you won't easily find elsewhere. The lab environment is also excellent.Having said that, I don't think the course alone is enough to help you pass the exam comfortablyespecially if you are new to ansible. You might pass, but not in a way that feels safe without additional self-study using materials from other sources such as sander's v9 video course.Just my two cents, i hope this helps someone who's preparing.
Need a budget laptop to run RHEL in a VM Need a budget laptop to run RHEL in a VMu/Sumerian-King•23 days agoNeed a budget laptop to run RHEL in a VMI’m using aLenovo Ideapad 100S(Intel Celeron N3050, 2GB RAM, Windows 10). I enrolled in aRHEL Foundation courseand found out I need to run a VM.When installing the VM, I was prompted to enable virtualization. I checked Windows settings and the BIOS, but there’s no virtualization option. Lenovo confirmed that virtualization isn’t supported on the Ideapad 100S, even though the CPU itself supports it.I want tolearn RHEL, but my hardware is holding me back.Can anyone recommend abudget laptopthat can run RHEL (or a RHEL VM) smoothly at a good speed, Model suggestions or links would be appreciated.
Is Networking + Enough? Is Networking + Enough?u/Illustrious-Pop-8906•2 mo. agoIs Networking + Enough?To put this into context, I have 3 years of Help Desk,  Tier 2 experience. I have my Security + and currently working on my Network +/Linux+.  My question  is, should I also try to for my CCNA before trying to get my Red Hat System Administrator cert? Or is Network + Enough?Edit: I guess I mean more in terms of the breath of knowledge--how much networking knowledge do you need to know to pass?Thanks.
RHCSA exam preparations RHCSA exam preparationsu/Humble_Insurance388•2 mo. agoRHCSA exam preparationsHi All,I am planning to take the RHCSA certification exam at the end of March, or even earlier if I feel fully prepared. I have completed the Udemy course 'Complete Linux Training Course' by Imran. Could you please suggest which books and labs I should study to successfully prepare for the RHCSA exam? I will be studying full-time and can dedicate 6–7 hours per day to my preparation. Any suggestions or tips would be greatly appreciated.
Dumps for RHCSC Certification Exam Preparation Dumps for RHCSC Certification Exam Preparationu/Traditional-Toe6506•1 mo. agoDumps for RHCSC Certification Exam PreparationHello everyone.I passed the RHCSA certification exam last July with a score of 240 out of 300 and am currently preparing for employment as a systems engineer.I'm currently preparing for the Red Hat Certified Specialist in Containers (EX188) exam, but I can't find any study materials that are nearly identical to the actual exam questions.If you happen to find any dumps that are similar to the actual exam questions, could you please let me know?
RHCSA 10 exam sim material ? RHCSA 10 exam sim material ?u/CrypticTux•1 mo. agoRHCSA 10 exam sim material ?Does it exist any RHCSA 10 exam sim material ?I know it some for RHCSA 9 but I need for version 10
Will RHEL 10 be less stable during the earlier minor releases? Will RHEL 10 be less stable during the earlier minor releases?u/Agent_E11•28 days agoWill RHEL 10 be less stable during the earlier minor releases?Many operating systems will be somewhat more bug-prone closer to the major releaseIf you want to be certain there are no serious bugs, you should wait a bit before upgrading (I know this is true at least for Fedora, Windows Server, and I think Ubuntu LTSs).Based on your experiences, has this been true for RHEL as well, or is it more or less consistent throughout the major release cycles?
UMASK UMASKu/medeasoulx•1 mo. agoUMASKHow can I change the umask value in RHEL 9 for all users? And how can I set it for a specific user only
RHCE V9 Tips RHCE V9 Tipsu/KN4SKY•2 mo. agoRHCE V9 TipsHello everyone. I'm practicing for the RHCE and going to attempt it early in 2026. I thought I'd share a few tips that I've been using during my study:You can combine ansible-doc -l with grep to search for specific FQCNs. Like this:ansible-doc -l | grep firewalldI find it to be easier than searching with Ansible Navigator. It's useful for when you don't remember if a module is in the POSIX or builtin collections, for example. Once you find it, use ansible-doc as normal or use ansible-doc -s for a shorter summary. You might want to consider aliasing these if you expect to use them a lot.2) Having trouble remembering Ansible facts? Run an ad-hoc command to gather facts and write it to a file:ansible -m setup lab-host-1 > facts.txtThen just useless facts.txtand search for the fact you need. I tried using grep at first, but it was cumbersome. Writing to a file that you can read anytime works better, IMO.3) If you're adding a new user and need to set a password, see if mkpasswd is available. It is more intuitive than using the password_hash filter. But know how to do both, mkpasswd may not be available on the lab machines (I had to install it from the AppStream repo on my developer copy of RHEL 9 for my lab setup).4) If tmux is available, USE IT! It really helps being able to have a window for editing and a window for ansible-doc. You don't need to know all the advanced features. Just practice with this:tmux > Ctrl+B > % > Now you have 2 terminal windows. Use Ctrl+B and the arrow keys to switch between them.Even if tmux isn't available on the exam, basic job control should still be there. Ctrl+Z suspends the running process (your editor). After you're done looking at ansible-doc or whatever, use fg to switch back. It's faster than saving and re-opening your playbook.  If you're using nano, you'll need to start it with -z for this to work.tmux might not always work perfectly. It's nice to have, but don't spend more than a few minutes tinkering with it.Hope I could help someone. I'll report back after my exam and give a high-level overview.
New to RHEL, trying to get Repos New to RHEL, trying to get Reposu/codifier•21 days agoNew to RHEL, trying to get ReposBe gentle, I am new to RHEL, and the subscription thing is... vexing.Signed up for Developer account, got ISO, installed VM.  Registered the VM, but now that its come time to install repos (following guides) I am running into a problem.  'This system has no repositories available through subscriptions.'I am stuck, and am not getting much traction with searches or AI (which tells me to essentially just run the commands).  Repos list shows nothing available through subscriptions, which the way I understand it is where I would get the repos to add through the --enable flag.What am I doing wrong?[root@localhost ~]# subscription-manager registerThis system is already registered. Use --force to override[root@localhost ~]# subscription-manager refreshAll local data refreshed[root@localhost ~]# yum repolist allUpdating Subscription Management repositories.No repositories available[root@localhost ~]# subscription-manager repos --listThis system has no repositories available through subscriptions.
Running docker compose on RHEL 10 Running docker compose on RHEL 10u/WonderfulFinger3617•17 days agoRunning docker compose on RHEL 10Hi everyone,Running docker compose on a vm with RHEL 10 is doable ?I need to run one container of a web application ( Redmine).or I really need to use podman?
Help a Beginner EX188 vs EX200 Help a Beginner EX188 vs EX200u/Cautious-Plenty6312•2 mo. agoHelp a Beginner EX188 vs EX200Hello Sub!I am pretty new to Linux and containers and I am looking to get RH certified idea is to start with something that is beginner friendly and then understand Linux and Open-shift in depth, would be great to have any insight on how fast can I get a certification given I’ll be dedicating 6-7 hours everyday with no background.Thankyou!!!
Discount Code Discount Codeu/Due-Author631•1 mo. agoDiscount CodeAll codes used.Good luck
Help: Symantec DLP NFS full (13TB) and 3.3 Billion files - How to clean? Help: Symantec DLP NFS full (13TB) and 3.3 Billion files - How to clean?u/FancyResolution167•2 mo. agoHelp: Symantec DLP NFS full (13TB) and 3.3 Billion files - How to clean?I have a massive problem with my Symantec DLP storage. My NFS share is almost full, but the file count (Inodes) is the real issue.The Stats:Size:13TB used (96% full)File Count:3.3 Billion files (96% Inodes used)Path:/opt/SymantecNFS/0000000000We currently haveNO retention policyin place, which is why the data has grown this large. I need to delete all incidents older than36 months.Because there are 3.3 billion files, the server is struggling. I can't just use standard delete commands, and I'm worried that setting a deletion rule in the Console now will crash the database or time out because of the sheer volume it has to process.What is the safest way to purge data older than 36 months when the volume is this high?Is there a script or tool to clean this up from the backend/file system directly?Has anyone successfully recovered from a LOB store this size?Any help is appreciated.
Exam discount code for 3 people Exam discount code for 3 peopleu/kdudu•1 mo. agoExam discount code for 3 peopleHi all,--- 3 codes have been shared, no more codes available ---I have a discount code thanks to passing ex430 late December. It needs to be used to purchase an exam by the 1st of April.If you are planning to take an exam and haven't yet purchased it, pls reach out!edit: codes are gone
EX328 new version EX328 new versionu/Far_Ladder5010•2 mo. agoEX328 new versionDoes anyone have information about the new version of EX328 that was released a few days ago?
RHEL 10: nvidia driver doesn't work RHEL 10: nvidia driver doesn't work[deleted]•2 mo. agoRHEL 10: nvidia driver doesn't workVGA: Nvidia RTX 4070 Ti SuperDriver: Nvidia open kernel modulesI installed RHEL 10 and then followedthis guidefrom Nvidia to install graphics card driver.After reboot, the boot freezes with the following screen:So I disabled "rhgb" in grub, then it asks me to unlock the encrypted disk:then the boot proceeds normally.However, the computer screen is set to 1024x768(4:3) even though my monitor is 1920x1080 (16:9). This issue didn't occur when the computer ran nouveau shipped with RHEL.How do I fix "boot freezes with rhgb" and "fixed resolution" issues?Edit: I'm okay with using nouveau. However, the terminal application crashes when it uses nouveau.Edit 2:Solvedthe issue.
RHCSA – January 2026 Exam: Can I Still Choose RHEL 9? RHCSA – January 2026 Exam: Can I Still Choose RHEL 9?u/Royal-Roll-6710•1 mo. agoRHCSA – January 2026 Exam: Can I Still Choose RHEL 9?Hi everyone,Today I went to the RedHat site to buy my RHCSA voucher, and it says the exam will be based on RHEL10. I’ve been preparing with RHEL 9.3. I saw on some Reddit posts that people could choose the RHEL version when scheduling...Does anyone know if this is still the case for January 2026? Can someone confirm if it’s still possible to pick RHEL 9 when scheduling?Thanks a lot!
Which beginner Linux cert/course is the best preparation for the RHCSA? Which beginner Linux cert/course is the best preparation for the RHCSA?u/dennettdane•1 mo. agoWhich beginner Linux cert/course is the best preparation for the RHCSA?Hi, I just finished cysa+ and I’m looking to build stronger Linux fundamentals by completing RHCSA before moving on to cloud certs. I’ve noticed that cloud work involves a lot of CLI usage and Linux-based infras.Through the comptia trifecta and cysa+, I’ve picked up some Linux exposure, mostly around networking and security tools and commands. However, I’m still lacking in core Linux skills like using Vim, managing users and groups, and general system knowledge...Given this background, which training would you recommend before diving into RHCSA-specific material? In particular, I’d like a strong focus on CLI usage and scripting skills. I’ve seen several Udemy courses covering Linux+, LPI Linux Essentials, and LFCS (I don’t plan on taking those exams, just for the course content)
Is RHEL good for software and FPGA development? Is RHEL good for software and FPGA development?[deleted]•2 mo. agoIs RHEL good for software and FPGA development?I have used many Linux distros on Windows vm and this is my first time trying Linux on bare metal. Yesterday I installed Fedora 43 and the installation process was so painful. Fedora 43 hadissuewith installation so I had to install Fedora 42 instead. Then after reboot the welcome screen asked me for time zone and after I clicked "Next", the desktopfroze. I found a workaround and upgraded the system to Fedora 43, then removed old fe42 packages which took another 20 minutes.Why is Fedora so unstable these days? I used to distrohop about five years ago (I tried Ubuntu, Debian, Kali, Fedora, OpenSUSE, RHEL, CentOS, and CachyOS recently) and this was definitely the worst user experience. When I first tried Fedora 30 a few years ago, the system was very stable, almost as stable as CentOS. Now it's a complete garbage.Although I managed to have Fedora 43 on my system, I don't want to stick with it because I can't trust the release engineering team anymore. They will make another release in April with another broken components especially that Anaconda garbage, and the users will need to deal with all the problems. Speaking of Anaconda, the Fedora team didn't backport the patch to 43, so that Anaconda installer will remain broken until the next major release.So I looked around for another distro and found RHEL and OpenSUSE. I chose RHEL because some applications lack support for SUSE. People say RHEL have old packages and system components like Gnome, but because we now have new major version every three years, I don't think this should be a problem.Before I install RHEL 10, I want to know if the software I use work on RHEL 10 as well. It will be my daily driver for development (I'm now using Windows only for gaming and Windows application debugging). Does RHEL 10 have any problems with the following software?VivadoVerilatorBuild tools for Linux kernel development (I won't install kernel bare metal but use QEMU instead)Jetbrains IDEGhosttyzsh/oh-my-zshneovim/LazyVimbun/nodejs/pnpm/deno (I don't use these heavily. These are just for my personal website)ZedVSCodegem5Latest version of LLVM, including clang, lldb, lld, etcChromeuvKiCadCurrently I only see neovim 0.10 in the package registry including EPEL. This also applies to other packages like clang. How do I get the latest version?Also how easy is it to upgrade between major versions like from 10 to 11. I need to do this every three years, so I hope I don't need to put much effort in upgrade process.
Scheduling IES exams Scheduling IES examsu/Aye-Chiguire•2 mo. agoScheduling IES examsI'm not yet ready to schedule my exam, but I'm running into issues with this. The options for IES (kiosks that are supposedly available all over the nation) don't appear. I see a list of 13 official testing sites, none of them in my state.If I click on Individual Testing, I get a list of 8 testing sites, none of them in my state.Am I forced to risk taking the remote exam and then get my voucher eaten if I cough at the wrong time or someone knocks at my door? Thanks in advance.
Path after RHCSA Path after RHCSAu/Horror_Shallot_1247•2 mo. agoPath after RHCSAHello everyone! I hope this is an appropriate place to ask this question. I just passed my RHCSA and I feel great about it, but I'm worried I might have took it sooner than I should have. I'm 23M and I've never been to college (I plan on going eventually) and I have never worked in IT, but I've had a huge passion for Linux ever since I discovered it in 2018 and have been working on a home lab ever since. One thing I encounter is seeing a lot of CompTIA requirements outside of major tech companies that look for more vendor specific stuff like Cisco, RedHat, etc. I was considering preparing for the RHCE next since I've been using Ansible heavily for a couple years now in my home lab, but without any real IT experience and no general entry-level certifications, I'm wondering from you professionals if it would be wise to go back and start getting certifications from CompTIA instead. I have been looking into NPO opportunities to get some kind of experience, but I haven't seen anything yet for anything that aligns with my skill set currently. So in essence, from you professionals out there, should I keep going down this Red Hat certification path I started or do I need to hit the brakes and go back to the beginning before I even consider a career in IT? If not, what are some valid options I can consider and things to keep in mind if I can keep following the Red Hat track? Thank you all!
Unlocking Image Builder on RHEL: A Step-by-Step Deployment Guide Unlocking Image Builder on RHEL: A Step-by-Step Deployment Guideu/waldirio•2 mo. agoUnlocking Image Builder on RHEL: A Step-by-Step Deployment Guide
Should I take RHSCA as a student? Should I take RHSCA as a student?u/Kooky-Fig6248•16 days agoShould I take RHSCA as a student?I am in Technical high school In Italy now and my school Teach us Software dev with Java and Full stack web dev and Basic Networking and some stuff with Cisco and We already Studied different OS and there File system and basic negotiations and some network scanning tools like Nmap and bit about common bugs and Common Attacks.Next year I will Graduate from high school with a EU diploma of Computer Science. It’s has less value than A bsc. And I am confused now which path to choose so I need a Genuine guide which Role I should get into and should o take RHSCA and more forward with a entry level SOC L1 than switch for any other position?
Does anyone have an idea when Asghar Ghori’s RHCSA: Red Hat Enterprise Linux 10 – Training and Exam Preparation Guide (EX200), Fourth Edition will be available in Kindle format? Maybe someone remembers how it was with the previous edition. Does anyone have an idea when Asghar Ghori’s RHCSA: Red Hat Enterprise Linux 10 – Training and Exam Preparation Guide (EX200), Fourth Edition will be available in Kindle format? Maybe someone remembers how it was with the previous edition.u/NotRealBusiness•1 mo. agoDoes anyone have an idea when Asghar Ghori’s RHCSA: Red Hat Enterprise Linux 10 – Training and Exam Preparation Guide (EX200), Fourth Edition will be available in Kindle format? Maybe someone remembers how it was with the previous edition.Unfortunately, it cannot be delivered to my country so the only option is digital version.
EX294 RHCE 0% on playback even though I thought I aced it..possible reasons? EX294 RHCE 0% on playback even though I thought I aced it..possible reasons?u/homeforlemons•1 mo. agoEX294 RHCE 0% on playback even though I thought I aced it..possible reasons?Hello, Im writing this post just so I dont repeat the same mistake on the retake and wondering if anyone else ran into this issue...When I started my exam, Ansible Navigator kept trying to pull the ee image from registry.redhat.io instead of the one from the given automation hub-- for charity's sake lets just call that one example.example.com/image:latest.I put the entire image url in the Ansible Navigator config that they provided in the home directory, but to no avail. I had to create a new ansible navigator configuration in the project directory to get my playbooks to run but figured that was that.I thought I aced this test, or at the very least passed it. All my playbooks did what they were supposed to...however I get my exam back with 0% on playbooks. How is that even possible? I know if they ran it with their given configuration it wouldn't have run. So was I supposed to fix their configuration? The thing is, on the configuration section of grading I got 100%. I put all my playbooks in the directory they directed me to.Anyone have any clue how to avoid this in the future??Also, yes, I contacted Red Hat for help on this to which they replied with nothing helpful. Just that they couldn't help because of the exam policy agreement....Please help, I don't want to fail on some weird gotcha or technicality again! 🫠Thank you in advance for any helpful input
RHCSA Sander Lesson 32.3 repo confusion RHCSA Sander Lesson 32.3 repo confusionu/Purple-Armadillo-559•20 days agoRHCSA Sander Lesson 32.3 repo confusionI have reached 32.3 Configuring a Repository Access Solution in the Sander Van Vught RHEL 10 CourseAnd mounts the dvd to /mnt  copies the files to /repo fixes selinux then straight up installs httpd via dnfHow does he install it if the /repo wasn't added in any way to dnf till this point nor is the vm registered?Am i missing something or am i straight stupid
Discount Code Discount Codeu/ohtarii•26 days agoDiscount Code15% OFFDISCOUNT CODE:GQM86P9RKeep learning and good luck!
Has anyone set up RedHat satellite image based provisioning to vmware vSphere using cloud-init? Has anyone set up RedHat satellite image based provisioning to vmware vSphere using cloud-init?u/xDind•2 mo. agoHas anyone set up RedHat satellite image based provisioning to vmware vSphere using cloud-init?Hi there.I'm running satellite 6 in an unmanaged network, using MS DNS and DHCP.I have been trying to figure out how to get image based provisioning with a vmware compute resource set up.I have read the documentation on provisioning and also this section (https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_satellite/6.16/html/provisioning_hosts/provisioning_virtual_machines_in_vmware_vmware-provisioning)I have created a vmware-cloud-init template and a vmware-userdata template. Both templates have been associated with the OS and hostgroupOn my compute resource, I have added the image from vmware and enabled 'User Data'.When I attempt to create the host in the UI, Insert the appropriate information for the host and operating system and static ip address, the resolved provisioning templates never select any cloud-init template.Does your vmware image resolve cloud-init templates? How did you get it working?
Best Video Courses and/or Mentorship for RHCSA? Best Video Courses and/or Mentorship for RHCSA?u/Illustrious-Pop-8906•2 mo. agoBest Video Courses and/or Mentorship for RHCSA?I can't stand books as they tend to be thick and quite boring. I do a lot better studying for certs via videos and/or classes.For those that have passed, which videos and/or online classes would you recommend?Thanks.
Rhcsa remote exam technical issue ! can’t find chat/support option Rhcsa remote exam technical issue ! can’t find chat/support optionu/ontheboot•1 mo. agoRhcsa remote exam technical issue ! can’t find chat/support optionI have a rhcsa exam in a few hours and I’m having a technical issue. I can’t find the “contact/chat with support” option in the exam interface. Has anyone experienced this before? Any help would be appreciated.
RHCSA exam Enrollment Status: Unapproved RHCSA exam Enrollment Status: Unapprovedu/SnooSongs1256•2 mo. agoRHCSA exam Enrollment Status: UnapprovedHi guys. I just purchased my RHCSA, but it showed me Enrollment Status: Unapproved. and I havent gotten my confirmation email from red hat. but my credit card has been charged. what is going on here?
Remote Exam - External Webcam Remote Exam - External Webcamu/Hympingboy•2 mo. agoRemote Exam - External WebcamTaking the remote online exam soon.Failing one of the streaming check (probably video quality).Was using an unused 1080p webcam from probably 7 years ago, it works but it is pretty slow to activate.Any wired webcam suggestions?
Disabling subscription-manager's container detection in Podman Disabling subscription-manager's container detection in Podmanu/Puzzleheaded-Pick319•1 mo. agoDisabling subscription-manager's container detection in PodmanHello, I'm trying to use subscription-manager within a UBI container but it always detects this and prevents any usage.I read that using the SMDEV_CONTAINER_OFF environment variable is supposed to disable that functionality and allow it to appear as a standalone machine but that doesn't seem to be working here. With a non-RHEL system such as Debian, it's fine either way.A RHEL 10 host ↓user@machine:~$ podman run --env 'SMDEV_CONTAINER_OFF=1' --rm -it registry.access.redhat.com/ubi9/ubi /bin/bash [root@594d9a631978 /]# echo $SMDEV_CONTAINER_OFF 1 [root@594d9a631978 /]# subscription-manager identity subscription-manager is operating in container mode. Use your host system to manage subscriptions. [root@594d9a631978 /]#How should I do this?
New hire seeking support New hire seeking supportu/Ok-Star-3304•1 mo. agoNew hire seeking supportI was referred by a friend and just got an email saying I have been approved but the gentleman said he was on vacation and would contact me when vacation was over with instructions on what department I would be in.  All I know is that it is a remote job.  Desperately seeking any information anyone can give.
Red Hat Tutors? Red Hat Tutors?u/Snakefidi•1 mo. agoRed Hat Tutors?I am growing increasingly frustrated by the fact that I am looking for a Certified Red Hat tutor and there seem to be none that are affordable. While searching, I have observed the following pattern: either the price is astronomical ($65/hour, $40/15 minutes) and the tutor has outstanding accolades, experience, and reviews, or the price is affordable and the tutor has little to no experience, no accolades, no reviews, and only a basic university degree in Computer Science.I attended a tuition center in Greece for my Red Hat Certified System Administrator (RHCSA) course, but the pace was very fast. All my colleagues had prior work experience. It cost me €1,700. I passed, but with great frustration, and now I have forgotten most of it because I had nowhere to continue practicing.What I am looking for is an affordable tutor ($15/hour) with whom I can grow over time—someone who can help me gradually work through the qualifications I am interested in, as well as provide CV feedback and guidance on potential employers.
Value var empty in Survey - AAP Value var empty in Survey - AAPu/gl1tch-exe•2 mo. agoValue var empty in Survey - AAPValue var empty in Survey - AAPr/ansible•2 mo. agoValue var empty in Survey - AAPHi all, I've created survey questions in AAP with var's value as "need.some.value". In the last step to confirm, the extra-vars is right:need:   some:     value: "my_value"But looks like the AAP doesnt recognize the var value as "need.some.value". I think that should change only to "value" without need.some to work. This is the same behavior in AWX. Have someone any idea?2upvotes·4comments
Failed RHCSA v10 Failed RHCSA v10u/Comfortable_Sailor•2 mo. agoFailed RHCSA v10205 when 210 would've passed.SELINUX and script got 0... I get why selinux went that way but script I find a bit perplexing.Few other simple things I got tripped up as well.Flatpak was weird and hurt my score with managing software I believe.Hopefully get the dub next time.
RHCSA promotion code RHCSA promotion codeu/mentalillnessgray•2 mo. agoRHCSA promotion codeHi all, about to book for my exam. If anyone has a voucher available I'd greatly appreciate it. Happy to lurk around and bounce my code to others afterwards.
Struggling to get emails formatted properly Struggling to get emails formatted properlyu/MartiniD•2 mo. agoStruggling to get emails formatted properlyI am using Redhat 8.10 with postfix/mailx (heirloom) as my MTA.I have several devices that I need to monitor. I am trying to get an email sent to me that reports on the status of the hosts and different services running on them. The body of the email needs to be HTML and will display a summary of the reports while the full reports are going to be attached as text files.I can get one but not both to work in a single email.So if I run something like this it works to get me properly formatted html body:echo "<html><body><h1>TEST</h1></body></html>" | mail -s "$(printf 'SUBJECT\nContent-Type: text/html\n')"email@example.comHowever, the moment i attempt to add an attachment it breaks the body formatting and I get unformatted tags and everything... but the attachment works. I've tried something like this as well but it does not work, it just combines the body and attachments into a single .bin file; but the contents are unformatted.echo "<html><body><h1>TEST</h1></body></html>" | mail -s "$(printf 'SUBJECT\nContent-Type: multipart/mixed\n')" -a file.txtemail@example.comTried searching online for decent solution that combines both of my needs but haven't had any luck yet. Anyone out there who has configured something like before and has some insight? Much appreciated.
RHEL 10 bootc image based VM  security products. RHEL 10 bootc image based VM  security products.u/wizzard99•23 days agoRHEL 10 bootc image based VM  security products.I've just recently been performing a POC for RHEL 10 bootc image based VM's with our base software on and have hit a roadblock with Microsoft Defender endpoint for Linux as it doesn't install correctly in a bootc image build and is not supported by Microsoft in a containerised Linux environment. Does anyone know of a similar product that does work? I can create additional commands in my containerfile to add the missing parts (user, directories and links) but that then becomes a possible future problem if things change in the product so we need something supported or we won't be able to use this method and will have to continue with just package based RHEL10
Cannot Login to OpenShift Console After 1/3 Nodes Fails Cannot Login to OpenShift Console After 1/3 Nodes Failsu/ifeatuosegbo•2 mo. agoCannot Login to OpenShift Console After 1/3 Nodes FailsHi all, has anyone ran into a situation where one of the nodes fails in a 3-master node environment and then login for Kubadmin fails.
My Classic RedHat theme My Classic RedHat themeu/ResPublicae•1 mo. agoMy Classic RedHat themeIt is in Gnome 3 of course, I used some extensions and I installed bluecurve icons and the cursor.
Looking for a 15% RHCSA Discount Code (Student) Looking for a 15% RHCSA Discount Code (Student)u/One-Algae8123•28 days agoLooking for a 15% RHCSA Discount Code (Student)Hello everyone,I am a student currently preparing for the RHCSA exam. As I look into the booking process, I’ve realized that the exam fee is quite a significant financial burden for a student like me.I’ve heard that there are 15% discount codes available through the Red Hat community. I know this might be a lot to ask, but if anyone has a spare code that they aren't planning to use, I would be incredibly grateful if you could share it with me.Thank you so much for your time and for any help you can provide!
RHCE New Year Discounts RHCE New Year Discountsu/ParticularIce1628•2 mo. agoRHCE New Year DiscountsHello everyone, Will there be any New Year discounts on the RHCE certification exam fee?
RCHSA for a QA ? RCHSA for a QA ?u/pieropacella1•1 mo. agoRCHSA for a QA ?Currently working as a QA Manual with a bit of experience in Automation but always liked the IT Ops side of the industry regarding networking and linux OS and troubleshooting hardware stuff.So i was wondering if theres any worth of preparing and taking the RCHSA Certs if im a QA Manual that is looking to move to laterally to IT ops but dont have experience?Im also looking for jobs in Europe so im not quite sure if RCHSA is a nice cert/skill to have to land a job?
Developing for RHEL and derivatives with Github Co-Pilot? Developing for RHEL and derivatives with Github Co-Pilot?u/louisPTC•2 mo. agoDeveloping for RHEL and derivatives with Github Co-Pilot?Hey Red Hat developers, I wrote this article for Coffee and Code magazine over on Medium and I think it might be helpful for those looking to use Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) with GitHub Copilot.  There's a sample configuration file that gets you Red Hat-behaviors automatically.  I'd love to hear other suggestions on how the experience could be improved?  Thanks in advance!https://medium.com/techtrends-digest/how-to-configure-github-copilot-for-rhel-development-5909693a4c12
Greetings lads! I have listened to all of your recommendations and decided not to eventually obtain the RHCSA/RHCE as a hobbyist, but to install RHEL and obtain the relevant book to learn on my own isntead, without paying for the certification. Greetings lads! I have listened to all of your recommendations and decided not to eventually obtain the RHCSA/RHCE as a hobbyist, but to install RHEL and obtain the relevant book to learn on my own isntead, without paying for the certification.u/Nelo999•1 mo. agoGreetings lads! I have listened to all of your recommendations and decided not to eventually obtain the RHCSA/RHCE as a hobbyist, but to install RHEL and obtain the relevant book to learn on my own isntead, without paying for the certification.I decided to go for the LPIC certification instead, that is more suited for people like myself who just want to expand their overall knowledge instead of seeking career advancement.I purchased the relevant book and now i am waiting for the weekend to install RHEL and start learning!
Has anyone here taken the EX328 exam? Has anyone here taken the EX328 exam?u/Far_Ladder5010•2 mo. agoHas anyone here taken the EX328 exam?I’d like to understand the exam environment and the main focus of each section's questions.Any insights would be appreciated.
UK Consultant Jobs UK Consultant Jobsu/mrendo_uk•2 mo. agoUK Consultant JobsHi All,I have applied for Redhat in the past got through and got a job offer but declined it due to pay but wish I did, I am thinking of applying again. I know its different per area so I'm after UK current experiences please. Happy for you to IM me rather then public. But any help would be great.Cheers,Mr E
GitHub Container Registry 101: Setup, Use, and Best Practices GitHub Container Registry 101: Setup, Use, and Best Practicesu/waldirio•22 days agoGitHub Container Registry 101: Setup, Use, and Best Practices
State of Open Source in 2026 from PSF, Rust Foundation, OSI, Apereo, Apache State of Open Source in 2026 from PSF, Rust Foundation, OSI, Apereo, Apacheu/WalrusOk4591•23 days agoState of Open Source in 2026 from PSF, Rust Foundation, OSI, Apereo, Apache
Cockpit & OpenScap Compliance Made Easy Cockpit & OpenScap Compliance Made Easyu/AbuddyFL•1 mo. agoCockpit & OpenScap Compliance Made EasyCheck it out:https://youtu.be/D5BVTMAmf64?si=l5V15mc93t6E2z-C
17 years ago red hat made this gem 17 years ago red hat made this gemu/tahorg•2 mo. ago17 years ago red hat made this gem17 years ago red hat made this gemr/linux•2 mo. ago17 years ago red hat made this gemhttps://youtu.be/5EkkMfjetEY?si=YrEXBrhw5qAYL0ClI was discussing with a youngling distro-hopper what it meant 25 years ago to be working in opensource and I remembered this video from Red Hat.Considering that almost everything processed in the cloud is Linux orbsd based today, I would have considered that already have reached the last step, but with the recent trends of enshtification of windows 11 (and valve awesome work), I think this is even more relevant today.115upvotes·27comments
Mastering Red Hat Satellite Release Notes: Tips and Tricks for Smooth Deployment and Upgrades Mastering Red Hat Satellite Release Notes: Tips and Tricks for Smooth Deployment and Upgradesu/waldirio•2 mo. agoMastering Red Hat Satellite Release Notes: Tips and Tricks for Smooth Deployment and Upgrades
Questions about setting up RHEL 10 on WSL Questions about setting up RHEL 10 on WSLu/Neves_Space_Corps•2 mo. agoQuestions about setting up RHEL 10 on WSLHello!I am a Linux beginner, looking into RHEL certifications, currently trying to set up RHEL 10 on WSL to study and practice.Got set up with Red Hat Developer Subscription for Individuals and downloaded an image, installed it using the instructions at:https://developers.redhat.com/articles/2025/05/20/getting-started-rhel-windows-subsystem-linuxI registered the system through subscription manager, and that works. However, when I do:subscription-manager repos --listI get:This system has no repositories available through subscriptions.Same with:dnf repolistUpdating Subscription Management repositories.No repositories availableAm I missing a step? Are there limitations with the Developer Subscription for Individuals?***UPDATE:***ROOT CAUSE:Our systems are not syncing as expected. That means the subscriptions might be visible in the customer's account, but they can't use the subscription or see them in order to add to a manifest.https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7066208
[REQUEST] RHCSA EX200 referral/discount code - December 2025 (very low budget) [REQUEST] RHCSA EX200 referral/discount code - December 2025 (very low budget)u/Square_Philosophy322•2 mo. ago[REQUEST] RHCSA EX200 referral/discount code - December 2025 (very low budget)guys pls i’m dying herestudied like crazy for RHCSA EX200, i’m actually ready, just broke af (100€ total budget)need that 15% referral code or literally anything that works in europe right nowif your code is gonna expire anyway just throw it my way, i’ll love you forevercan book tomorrow if i get onethanks legends ❤️
RedHat License from OEM to RedHat Support Directly RedHat License from OEM to RedHat Support Directlyu/Similar_Reporter2908•2 mo. agoRedHat License from OEM to RedHat Support DirectlyHi I would like to understand  the process of moving our existing RedHat licenses from the OEM model to direct RedHat support. Please advise if it is Possible to do so?
Developing for RHEL and derivatives with Cursor? Developing for RHEL and derivatives with Cursor?u/louisPTC•22 days agoDeveloping for RHEL and derivatives with Cursor?Hey Red Hat developers, after I wrote my article on RHEL and Github Copilot for Coffee and Code magazine over on Medium I wrote another article on how to set good RHEL behaviors in Cursor.   I think it might be helpful for those looking to use Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) with Cursor. As with my previous article, there is  a sample configuration that gets you Red Hat-behaviors automatically. I'd love to hear other suggestions on how the experience could be improved? Thanks in advance!https://medium.com/techtrends-digest/how-to-configure-cursor-for-rhel-development-a363b16100de
Basics of redhats Basics of redhatsu/Eloxyd3s•1 mo. agoBasics of redhatsI am in general informatic so we basically learn how to code and how networks work, but I must admit that since i had to do a project about Rocky I developed sort of an obsession over red hat and I would like to learn how to become one could anyone redirect me towards resources or people able to help me with such?Best regards
RHCE materials ! RHCE materials !u/Salty_Nothing_5609•1 mo. agoRHCE materials !any suggestions about EX294 materials ?what should i take ?kodekloud,youtube,books,GIT cources AND dumps..!!!!
[REQUEST] RHCSA EX200 referral/discount code - December 2025 (very low budget) [REQUEST] RHCSA EX200 referral/discount code - December 2025 (very low budget)u/Square_Philosophy322•2 mo. ago[REQUEST] RHCSA EX200 referral/discount code - December 2025 (very low budget)[REQUEST] RHCSA EX200 referral/discount code - December 2025 (very low budget)r/redhat•2 mo. ago[REQUEST] RHCSA EX200 referral/discount code - December 2025 (very low budget)guys pls i’m dying herestudied like crazy for RHCSA EX200, i’m actually ready, just broke af (100€ total budget)need that 15% referral code or literally anything that works in europe right nowif your code is gonna expire anyway just throw it my way, i’ll love you forevercan book tomorrow if i get onethanks legends ❤️4comments
Ex316 Ex316u/ExtensionSolution294•25 days agoEx316I looking to schedule my ex316 exam.  Any tips, suggestions, concerns, etc before I take the exam?
is GPT neccessary in the exam? is GPT neccessary in the exam?u/abdomin25•2 mo. agois GPT neccessary in the exam?Hi guys,I will take the Version 10 exam next week. However, there is a question I want to ask: When there is a question about partitioning, even if it is not explicitly stated, should i convert the partition table to GPT?Second Can i use the Fdisk to convert gpt? or i must user gparted or gdisk?
gnome-extensions advice gnome-extensions adviceu/thomasbbbb•27 days agognome-extensions adviceHello,These days I discovered the window-list and apps extensions. Any other you'd recommend?For the noobs reading, you can install them with:dnf install gnome-shell-extension-apps-menu gnome-shell-extension-window-list gnome-extensions enable app<TAB> gnome-extensions enable win<TAB>
Red Hat Certificate System Red Hat Certificate Systemu/Outside_Screen6226•27 days agoRed Hat Certificate SystemI would like to learn more about Redhat's Certificate System PKI. I would really appreciate more information like videos, documents, notes etc.... that could help me with this topic. THanks
Free RH membership that will allow me to access TILs? Free RH membership that will allow me to access TILs?u/EfficientPark7766•2 mo. agoFree RH membership that will allow me to access TILs?In the past, I've utilized some sort of free RH membership that allowed me to read TILs and aquire a free license or two for dev purposes. That old account doesn't get me to the same places these days... :(Is there still an equivalent of this now? A dev account or even an EDU related account?TIA!
Unable to delete hosts in Subscription Services Unable to delete hosts in Subscription Servicesu/0x412e4e•1 mo. agoUnable to delete hosts in Subscription ServicesHello everyone!I use the Red Hat Developer license to run a little RHEL9 home lab with about a dozen servers.I have a couple of RHEL9 servers that I've decommissioned and I'm unable to remove them from the Subscription Services page in the Cloud Console.The hosts in question are:plex.home.arpawire.home.arpaIf I click on e.g.plex.home.arpa, I just get the error:System with ID XXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX does not exist
Kickstart RHEL9.6 doesn't work on specific hardware Kickstart RHEL9.6 doesn't work on specific hardwareu/mutedsomething•2 mo. agoKickstart RHEL9.6 doesn't work on specific hardwareI configured a kickstart.cfg file and I need to deploy it on HPE servers with 2 disks, Some of them are RAID1, others are RAID 6.The issue is that some servers works fine and the OS is up and I can see the LVM disks, but others facing failureHere is the configuration:-# Setup partitions, volume groups, logical volumespart /boot/efi --fstype=efi --size=200 --ondisk=sdapart /boot --fstype=xfs --size=1024 --ondisk=sdapart pv.01 --size=200 --grow --ondisk=sdapart pv.02 --size=200 --grow --ondisk=sdbvolgroup vg_yms pv.01volgroup vg_yms_data pv.02logvol /      --vgname=vg_yms      --name=lv_root  --fstype=xfs --size=50000 --growlogvol swap   --vgname=vg_yms      --name=lv_swap  --fstype=swap --recommendedlogvol /data1 --vgname=vg_yms_data --name=lv_data1 --fstype=xfs --size=200 --grow --fsoptions="defaults,noatime"I think it tries to find sda and sdb and if they are there it works but if there are others than sda/sdb it fails. How can I remediate that?.
nmtui - RHCSA 10 Exam? nmtui - RHCSA 10 Exam?u/pavel1024•1 mo. agonmtui - RHCSA 10 Exam?
RHCSA exam Discount RHCSA exam Discountu/emkay25•1 mo. agoRHCSA exam DiscountHello everyone,I have this 15% promo code that can be used twice. If anyone’s interestedDISCOUNT CODE: NZJ7PA8I
Red Hat Learnin Red Hat Learninu/ankitnewjobs•1 mo. agoRed Hat LearninRed Hat Learninr/redhat•1 mo. agoRed Hat LearninHi Everyone,I need to learn Red Hat for my new project, any good recommendation fromm where to start?8comments
Red Hat Learnin Red Hat Learninu/ankitnewjobs•1 mo. agoRed Hat LearninHi Everyone,I need to learn Red Hat for my new project, any good recommendation fromm where to start?
Red hat Exam Experience Janky Red hat Exam Experience Jankyu/gastroengineer•2 mo. agoRed hat Exam Experience JankyThe last few exams I have taken remotely has not been pleasant. The UI hasn't been very responsive, my mouse cursor is sluggish and the text I have been typing has be echoing out.My box meet the requirements (AMD mini-pc with 16 Gigs of RAM). I was using WiFI+Power Over Ethernet, so I went completely hardwired directly to the my router, with no change.The only difference is that I was using the 2023-05 image, and now I am using the latest (2025-10) image. I would be surprised if that is the cause, though.Has anybody's exam experience been just as janky as mine?
First time installing OpenShift via UPI, took about 2 days, looking for feedback First time installing OpenShift via UPI, took about 2 days, looking for feedbacku/Rare-Income7475•28 days agoFirst time installing OpenShift via UPI, took about 2 days, looking for feedbackFirst time installing OpenShift via UPI, took about 2 days, looking for feedbackr/openshift•28 days agoFirst time installing OpenShift via UPI, took about 2 days, looking for feedbackI just finished my first OpenShift installation using the UPI method, running on KVM, and it took me about 2 days from start to a healthy cluster.This is my first time ever working with OpenShift, so I wanted to get a reality check from more experienced folks, Is that a reasonable timeframe for a first UPI install?So far I’ve done:•	Full UPI install (NFS, firewall, DHCP, DNS, LB, ignition)•	Made the image registry persistent•	Added an extra worker node•	Cluster is healthy and accessible via console and routesBefore I start deploying real workloads, I wanted to ask:•	What post-installation tasks do you usually consider essential?•	Anything people commonly forget early on?Any advice or best practices would be appreciated. Thanks!Note: I know I can google search this but I wanted a discussion with people with much more experience.13upvotes·26comments
Urgent...Need help with ansible-navigator for RHCE exams Urgent...Need help with ansible-navigator for RHCE examsu/noble_1997•2 mo. agoUrgent...Need help with ansible-navigator for RHCE examsHello everyone,I am planning to appear for the RHCE(EX294) exam later this month.I need your valuable advice regarding the usage of ansible-navigator in the exam, as I have seen many conflicting posts here and on other forums on whether we need to use ansible -navigator or not.I checked the syllabus and it clearly mentions about setting up of ansible-navigator, so I have the following doubts:Do we have to install ansible-navigator package using pip in the exam? Or will it be already installed?I saw a thread in which it was mentioned that we only have to login to the podman registry provided in the exam and the ansible-navigator will automatically download the required image..Can someone please confirm if this is correct understanding?In case anyone has any video or any forum link or any article then please let me know, i will go through it..Thanks in advance!
RHCSA for Beginner RHCSA for Beginneru/Overall_Accident9189•2 mo. agoRHCSA for BeginnerI’m currently in my 3rd year of college (CS major) and I’m thinking about going into the system administration / cloud path. I have a holiday now, so I’m considering using the time to study for the RHCSA.I have some basic Linux knowledge from small projects, but I’m wondering: Is RHCSA a good first certification to pursue? And will it actually help me get my first internship or entry-level job?
How do I actually learn Linux & clear RHCSA How do I actually learn Linux & clear RHCSAu/Excellent-Amoeba-928•2 mo. agoHow do I actually learn Linux & clear RHCSAHey everyone,I’m trying to learn Linux properly and also plan to clear RHCSA, but I’m honestly a bit confused about the right way to do it.I don’t just want to pass the exam — I want to be good at Linux administration in real life. Right now, it feels like I’m putting in effort but not always seeing progress, so I’d really appreciate advice from people who’ve been through this.What I’m struggling with:There’s so much to learn and I don’t know what really mattersRepeating the same things but still feeling unsureBalancing theory, labs, and daily work without burning outWhat I want to ask you all:How did you learn Linux in the beginning?Is it better to learn by doing tasks first, or understand theory in depth?Should I stick closely to RHCSA objectives, or focus on general Linux skills first?What resources genuinely helped you (courses, books, YouTube, docs, labs)?How do you practice troubleshooting instead of just following tutorials?For RHCSA specifically:How different is the exam from real-world system admin work?Which topics deserve extra focus?What kind of lab practice actually prepares you for the exam?My current approach:Learning through hands-on tasks (users, permissions, mounting, services, basics of networking)Practicing on local VMsTrying to learn seriously, but sometimes getting overwhelmed or stuckIf you were starting over:What would you do differently?What mistakes should I avoid?What habits helped you become confident with Linux?I’m open to any honest advice, practical tips, or personal experiences. Thanks a lot — really appreciate the help
About contesting exam results About contesting exam resultsu/hakatsc•1 mo. agoAbout contesting exam resultsHello everyone,I recently took the EX288 OpenShift Application Developer exam. For one section, I was confident my solution was textbook correct, and the check at the bottom showed it was successful. I also didn’t do anything manual that wasn’t specified in the question. However I got 0% from that item, after contesting the result and requesting a manual review, they claimed the grading had no issues. I checked the official ebook and materials, but I still don’t think I made any mistake. I suspect a typo in the project name, forgetting pushing to git or something minor caused the automatic grading to give 0% despite solution was working. I would have expected a manual review to allow regrading for small or partial mistakes that automatic grading can't pick up but my colleagues also said certification team never changes grading in manual review.Has anyone else think they experienced something similar to this after requesting manual recheck?
What Bash do you use daily? What Bash do you use daily?u/Black_Star_Mechanic•1 mo. agoWhat Bash do you use daily?I've been more focused on RHEL in my current job than I ever was over the last Decade.  It's been great.  I have no issues with Windows, and there was never a big chance to do whatever I thought needed to be done, until now.  All of that being said, I've noticed a "Trend" in the work I've been giving myself.  Because of that, I used Claude and built a "Toolbox" of sorts that does a list of things for me.  Essentially, it will query things on demand that I want to know.The question is, what do you, other SYS Admins/Engineers, find yourself doing daily in bash that you have scripted or wish were?  I figured if I was going to make a toolbox, I want as many tools as I could in it.Right now it (once asked to report):-Checks DNF update-Checks a smattering of default services and their status-Checks if LDAP is working-Logs on demand the results from:-Tells me the most active users on the server- Search for errors in Failed SSH attempts/Invalid Logins (Kernel Errors and warning (dmesg))/(/Var/log/messages/)/journalctl-audit file permissions (give it a path and it searches and says if any are over-provisioned with suggestions on what they might want to be)-search all app logs and let me select which app I want to see the last log of for any errors-Security Scan (logins/Port/Firewall)-DISA STIG Compliance (will run OSCAP or view the results of the last OSCAP and list results)-SSH Configuration Audit (we have an issue with openssh/openssserver needing to be a little different than factory.  Some updates reset it, and this will tell me when it's different than the template I want)-Search for certs, give their info, and report expiration dates-Compare installed software against another's list of software.  Since I work on offline servers and work with others, I can't guarantee every server is 1 for 1, until now.-Validate Daemons Configurations are formatted correctly syntaxedThis is what it does now; they are all things that I have had to deal with or know I will.  Are there things I am missing? Would you happen to know if there are any daily or weekly tasks that I should consider scripting to make life easier?This is what it is now if anyone wants to use it:https://claude.ai/public/artifacts/e6a725a3-2b07-4005-b049-8f927ad98467
RHCSA- stressful time RHCSA- stressful timeu/pavel1024•1 mo. agoRHCSA- stressful timeHi! I’m preparing for the RHCSA exam v10 (without Podman) and I’m honestly a bit stressed about the Bash scripting part — especially loops and longer scripts.For those who took RHCSA recently: what was the typical length/complexity of the scripting tasks?Were they mostly simple one-liners / 1–2 lines, or longer scripts with loops/conditions?It’s my first exam, and I’m mainly worried about how long/complex the Bash scripting tasks might be — I don’t want to mess it up.
Passed EX188 Exam Scored (274) Here is the exact resources and Roadmap i used want to share with you all Passed EX188 Exam Scored (274) Here is the exact resources and Roadmap i used want to share with you allu/Raghul-M01•2 mo. agoPassed EX188 Exam Scored (274) Here is the exact resources and Roadmap i used want to share with you allI took theEX188 – Red Hat Certified Specialist in Containersexam yesterday and I’m happy to share that I passed!Passing score:210My score:274Result:PASSHere are the resources and tips that helped me:I completed the official Red HatDO188course.I created my own personal notes while preparing . I’ve made them open source on GitHub:https://github.com/Raghul-M/Podman-ContainerSpecialistImportant topics to focus on:Podman volumesPodman networkspodman runpodman buildMulti-container applicationsContainerfile basicsTroubleshooting containers (takes time but very important) [tip : nginx image get more handson on this ]Example exam-style questions (not exact, but similar):https://www.scribd.com/document/902958193/ExamCopy/paste in the exam can be tricky  use your mouse instead of keyboard shortcuts.Usepodman <command> --helpandman podman-<command>extremely helpful during the exam.To get familiar with Red Hat’s environment, this video helps:https://youtu.be/Me6Y12-sux8?si=haFitcCfaY4V8fqtIf anyone has questions about the exam or preparation, feel free to ask!
Ghada Atef's RHCE practice exams Ghada Atef's RHCE practice examsu/RealityNecessary2023•2 mo. agoGhada Atef's RHCE practice examsI benefited a lot from her RHCSA  practice exams on Udemy, in fact, I contribute 80% of my success in the exam to them, so I'm very inclined to try her RHCE exams as well, but I wanted to get opinions from those who tried them. How did you find the quality of the practice exams?
AWX Dynamic inventory using IAM user cross account AWX Dynamic inventory using IAM user cross accountu/agyap•2 mo. agoAWX Dynamic inventory using IAM user cross accountAWX Dynamic inventory using IAM user cross accountr/ansible•2 mo. agoAWX Dynamic inventory using IAM user cross accountHave anyone set AWX using dynamic inventory on AWS IAM. I am able to pull dynamic inventory using access_id and secret key of an IAM user where my AWX account is running but not from other AWS account.  i know if i set up another user with its access key i can pull it but i was trying to use assume_role_arn from ec2.yml in the AWX gui to pull that from each AWS account instead of using credentials from each account.3upvotes·13comments
Admin Companion and Red Hat Lightspeed CLA: Two AI Assistants for Linux Administration Admin Companion and Red Hat Lightspeed CLA: Two AI Assistants for Linux Administrationu/ayonik0•1 mo. agoAdmin Companion and Red Hat Lightspeed CLA: Two AI Assistants for Linux AdministrationAdmin Companion and Red Hat Lightspeed CLA: Two AI Assistants for Linux Administrationr/commandline•1 mo. agoAdmin Companion and Red Hat Lightspeed CLA: Two AI Assistants for Linux Administration1comment
Diving into Red Hat OpenStack “life after TripleO” with RHOSO 18… but I have zero OpenShift experience. Looking for guidance. Diving into Red Hat OpenStack “life after TripleO” with RHOSO 18… but I have zero OpenShift experience. Looking for guidance.u/openstacker•2 mo. agoDiving into Red Hat OpenStack “life after TripleO” with RHOSO 18… but I have zero OpenShift experience. Looking for guidance.TL;DR: I need a practical 'how to implement' guide for getting BMC-style management (IPMI/Redfish) working for VMs on a RHEL9 libvirt hypervisor, so that OCP 4.18 can deploy a compact- cluster the same as it would on bare metal. Basically: how do I set up BMC endpoints for VMs so the bootstrap node can manage power state?I'm building a small RHOSO 18 lab / proof-of-concept using a RHOCP 4.18 compact cluster (3 VMs on a single RHEL9 KVM/libvirt host). I don't have enough hardware for a bare-metal cluster right now, so this lab is meant to help me learnIn the "Planning Your Deployment" guide, I'm struggling with this point:3.1.2. RHOCP network requirementsIf you are using virtual media boot to provision bare-metal data plane nodes and the nodes are not connected to a provisioning network or to the RHOCP machine network, you must configure a route for the Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) and the node to reach the RHOCP machine network. The machine network is the network used by RHOCP cluster nodes to communicate with each other.This implies I need BMC (redfish or ipmi) capability for each VM so the bootstrap node can discover, manage, and power cycle them like bare-metal hosts. I’ve never set this up for VMs, and I've only seen it in Red Hat training labs where everything is prebuilt.My TAM didn't have an answer, and my Google-fu hasn't helped. OpenBMC looks powerful, but seems to have a huge learning curve aimed at contributors rather than "I just need this to work for a lab."What's the fastest, simplest way to get BMC-like management working for VMs on a single libvirt/KVM server?Are there recommended tools, example configs, or "just do this" guides to stand up lightweight Redfish/IPMI controls for libvirt VMs?Any guidance, links, or real-world examples would be massively appreciated.
EX294 Materials ! EX294 Materials !u/Salty_Nothing_5609•1 mo. agoEX294 Materials !hey all i wonder where could i found on github the EX294 rhel materials ...
How to upgrade mariadb to 10.3.29 from 10.3.28 on Centos 8 stream? How to upgrade mariadb to 10.3.29 from 10.3.28 on Centos 8 stream?u/wildlily980•1 mo. agoHow to upgrade mariadb to 10.3.29 from 10.3.28 on Centos 8 stream?How to upgrade mariadb to 10.3.29 from 10.3.28 on Centos 8 stream?r/linuxadmin•1 mo. agoHow to upgrade mariadb to 10.3.29 from 10.3.28 on Centos 8 stream?Hellocurrent version: Mariadb 10.3.28I want a minor upgrade of database for the st_distance_sphere function and spatial indexI have tried this:#dnf update maria* Last metadata expiration check: Dependencies resolved. Nothing to do. Complete!I tried setup the repository with mariadb repository setup script, but it doesn't work--conflict with the system repos,tried find a rpm package, nothing found.Is there an easy way to do this?Thank you for you time6comments
Has anyone used Alta3 to prepare for the RHCSA? Has anyone used Alta3 to prepare for the RHCSA?u/chezypuff•2 mo. agoHas anyone used Alta3 to prepare for the RHCSA?Hey guys, I've set a goal to pass the RHCSA in the next 3 months and I'm trying to find some training materials that can help me stay engaged. I appreciate the use of humor to cover what can honestly be a somewhat dry subject. I'm curious if anyone has successfully used their training to pass the RHCSA exam and any other resources that may have a similar feel? I'm starting a career shift from hospitality but have been a lifelong Linux hobbyist. Given most of my experience is catered to personal use rather than sys admin related tasks but I enjoy tinkering and learning. Even took AP computer science in highschool but ended up getting out of computer science because a lot of the math involved in a CS degree disagreed with me. I cooked my way through college and highschool so ended up with a bachelors in hospitality and hotel management instead and after 25 years behind the stove I am looking to switch into a more rewarding career path that allows me to work remotely and possibly apply my skillsets to front facing Point of Sale companies like Toast or Gingerbread. Please advise! Thank you in advance!
How to properly allocate memory & optimize KVM on a Dell R660 (62GB RAM)? How to properly allocate memory & optimize KVM on a Dell R660 (62GB RAM)?u/curious_Donkey5208•2 mo. agoHow to properly allocate memory & optimize KVM on a Dell R660 (62GB RAM)?Hi everyone, I’m new to server virtualization and would like some advice from experienced Linux admins.I have a Dell PowerEdge R660 with 62GB RAM. It is hosting 3 KVM VMs:RHEL 9.4 – 4 vCPU / 8GB RAMRHEL 9.4 – 2 vCPU / 8GB RAMWindows Server 2025 – 4 vCPU / 32GB RAMSometimes some VMs fail or freeze, and I noticed very high memory usage on the host. I suspect my memory allocation isn’t correct or optimized.A few things I want to understand:How much RAM should I reserve for the host OS? (Right now I allocated most of it to VMs)What’s the typical CPU/RAM overcommit ratio sysadmins follow?Any common monitoring tools recommended for long-term memory trends?I’m just trying to learn what arenormal practiceswhen allocating memory for KVM so I don’t overload the host and cause VM crashes.Appreciate any advice or references — thanks!
Passed RHCSA exam 284/300 - Open to questions for those curious! Passed RHCSA exam 284/300 - Open to questions for those curious!u/SCIP10001•2 mo. agoPassed RHCSA exam 284/300 - Open to questions for those curious!
Using CENTOS Using CENTOSu/Ronin92287•2 mo. agoUsing CENTOSNew to RHEL and I’m wanting input on using CENTOS as an alternative to learn RHEL.
Need help understanding what happened with my satellite 6.11 instance Need help understanding what happened with my satellite 6.11 instanceu/MartiniD•2 mo. agoNeed help understanding what happened with my satellite 6.11 instanceI know 6.11 is past support and we should upgrade. Its not in the cards at the moment due to technical and budgetary requirements. I'm not a total rookie with Satellite but I'm still not fully comfortable with it and understanding its architecture. I think I know just enough to be dangerous lol.So for testing I had to create a new product with repositories and 3 content views and then add those content views to the lifecycle environment. After I created everything and checked that everything worked I had to revert our Satellite instance back to its original configuration where it was before I started. So I started with removing the content views from the environment. CV 1 is a composite of CV2 and CV3. CVs 2 and 3 are standard content views. My creation order went:create the product2. create the repos3. create the content views4. add the content views to the environment5. updated the activation-keyCVs 1 and 2 were removed from the environment with no issue, however CV3 returned:"Could not remove the content view from environment: Cannot remove 'CV3' from environment 'Library' die to associated hosts: HOST1, HOST2. Cannot remove 'CV3' from environment 'Library' due to associated activation keys: AK1"The command I used was:hammer content-view remove-from-environment --organization "org" --lifecycle-environment "Library" --name "CV3"We never added content hosts to any of the CVs so I'm wondering how that happened in the first place and also why CV3 is specifically presenting with this error when the other two didn't. What's the best way to resolve this issue?Also what is the correct order-of-operations when it comes to to undo my testing changes? Is it:remove the views form the environment2. delete the views3. delete the repos4. delete the productI've been looking for articles for the last day and half but I don't think I've found anything relevant to this specific error message. Thanks for anyone's help in advance.
Is it possible to practice the RHCSA labs by booting the RHCSA exam ISO? Is it possible to practice the RHCSA labs by booting the RHCSA exam ISO?u/luuuzeta•2 mo. agoIs it possible to practice the RHCSA labs by booting the RHCSA exam ISO?In this Red Hat'sInside a Red Hat Certification Exam: What you need to knowvideo, they show a VM Manager application with node 1 and node2. I figured these are simply two VM instances packaged into this small app to make it easier for the candidate, however I'm wondering if it's possible to practice with this exact same setup by booting the exam ISO.
Unlock LUKS encrypted nodes over the network without Tang Server Unlock LUKS encrypted nodes over the network without Tang Serveru/Ill-Butterfly7017•2 mo. agoUnlock LUKS encrypted nodes over the network without Tang ServerI'm a Infrastructure Engineer, my team assigned me the task of implementing LUKS encryption on more than 45 workstations that do not have TPM on them. All nodes run RHEL 8.8, and the master server is also RHEL 8.8 with the RHAWK RTOS. The master manages all nodes through xCAT. I implement LUKS by adding the encryption parameters on the xCAT kickstart template.Here’s the issue: software developers are complaining that every time they reboot a workstation, they must manually enter the LUKS passphrase — a 24-character randomized string. Each node uses a unique passphrase, and developers are not allowed to know it. As expected, this has created operational friction. It has reached the point where my own productivity is impacted because I am repeatedly asked to unlock nodes throughout the day.I began researching options for remotely unlocking LUKS-encrypted systems over the network. Nearly every solution I found pointed to using a Tang server (9.9 times out of 10). I proposed this to the senior engineers, but they rejected it. Their position is that introducing a Tang server would effectively introduce a “Key Server,” which would alter the baseline system design. Additionally, we operate in a completely closed network, so I cannot install or integrate third-party software from the internet.Given these constraints — no TPM, no Tang, no external software, and a closed environment — what other options exist for enabling non-interactive LUKS unlock during boot?
Which Red Hat certification should I pursue first if I want to focus on OpenShift? Which Red Hat certification should I pursue first if I want to focus on OpenShift?u/Beneficial-Study-675•2 mo. agoWhich Red Hat certification should I pursue first if I want to focus on OpenShift?Hi everyone,I earned my RHCSA earlier this year, and I just got my RHCE this December.Since then, I’ve been working a lot with Ansible — it has helped me tremendously and really boosted my skills.Recently, I’ve also been creating various tools using go-ansible.Now I’d like to shift my focus toward OpenShift and start learning it more seriously.For those who have experience in this area — which Red Hat certification should I aim for first when diving into OpenShift?I’ve already started studying Kubernetes basics as preparation.Any advice or recommendations would be greatly appreciated. Thanks! 🙏
The new Red Hat Satellite Basics interactive lab with Satellite 6.18 is live The new Red Hat Satellite Basics interactive lab with Satellite 6.18 is liveu/Ok-Perception-5411•2 mo. agoThe new Red Hat Satellite Basics interactive lab with Satellite 6.18 is liveGo tolab.redhat.com.Direct link.Feedback? Bugs? Please file them here:https://github.com/rhpds/zt-satellite-basics/issues
Red Hat Partner License Red Hat Partner License[deleted]•1 mo. agoRed Hat Partner LicenseSo I'm working at a Red Hat Partner and we are given a 500-host license for RHEL.I'm thinking of using this license for a bunch of private virtual machines like nextcloud more or less permanently. With SCA, I'm assuming Red Hat won't ever look twice at such a practice, but I'm a bit unsure.Any experience in regards to such a situation? Should I switch to Alma or CentOS Stream?
Fix for Broken Chrome/PWA Icons (Syntax error in xdg-utils) Fix for Broken Chrome/PWA Icons (Syntax error in xdg-utils)u/StillSpecialist6986•2 mo. agoFix for Broken Chrome/PWA Icons (Syntax error in xdg-utils)I've been struggling with Chrome PWAs failing to create icons on RHEL 10. I discovered that thexdg-icon-resourcescript provided by thexdg-utilspackage has a syntax error.The Error:Chrome logs showed:/usr/bin/xdg-icon-resource: line 1076: unexpected EOF while looking for matching backtickThe Fix:In/usr/bin/xdg-icon-resource, line 1076 contains a stray backtick:Bad:path="$(xdg_realpath "$1")" 2> /dev/null`Good:path="$(xdg_realpath "$1")" 2> /dev/nullRemoving the backtick fixes PWA installation immediately. Just wanted to share in case anyone else is testing RHEL 10!
RHCSA exam RHCSA examu/Comfortable_Sailor•2 mo. agoRHCSA examI plan on taking v10 because then I don't have to deal with containers and flatpak is relatively straight forward.I can do the tasks in Sanders practice exams (other than containers) pretty confidently with some help from man pages. I feel ready to test... That said is there anything else I should make sure to know outside the kinds of tasks on the practice exams?
Run Linux Apps on Mac OS: XQuartz Tutorial for Seamless Linux-Mac Integration Run Linux Apps on Mac OS: XQuartz Tutorial for Seamless Linux-Mac Integrationu/waldirio•2 mo. agoRun Linux Apps on Mac OS: XQuartz Tutorial for Seamless Linux-Mac Integration
nmcli command to create one to many IPIP tunnel nmcli command to create one to many IPIP tunnelu/Maary_H•2 mo. agonmcli command to create one to many IPIP tunnelHello there,Is there any nmcli experts that can help with using nmcli to do following network configuration, please?modprobe ipip # creates tunl0@NONE interfaceifconfig tunl010.11.12.13netmask255.255.255.240up # configures ip address on tunl0@NONE interface and brings it upImportant caveat: this is IPIP one-to-many configuration that does NOT have remote address.Important caveat #2: this is specifically IP-in-IP tunnel that is provided by ipip kernel module, it's not tun or tap, it's tunl.Why can't I use ifconfig? It does not exist on RHEL10.Thank you!
RHCE discount code RHCE discount codeu/rippley5150•2 mo. agoRHCE discount codeHello,Does anyone have a discount code for the RHCE exam?Thank you
EX200K exam discount code request EX200K exam discount code requestu/jamesfreeman959•2 mo. agoEX200K exam discount code requestHey all.I'm about to book myself onto the RHCSA for RHEL 10 and wondered if anyone has an exam discount code they can share please? Happy to contribute mine back one I receive them. Please DM me if you are able to help?Thanks in advance!
RHCSA 9 vs. RHCSA 10 Study Strategy: Asghar Ghori's Book & Exam Path RHCSA 9 vs. RHCSA 10 Study Strategy: Asghar Ghori's Book & Exam Pathu/mgsisboss•2 mo. agoRHCSA 9 vs. RHCSA 10 Study Strategy: Asghar Ghori's Book & Exam PathHey everyone, I just kicked off my RHCSA (Red Hat Certified System Administrator) studies and ran into a bit of a dilemma!I was planning on usingAsghar Ghori's RHCSA book, but the latest edition seems to coverRHEL 9(or earlier).Is studying RHEL 9 material sufficient for the new RHCSA 10 exam?Are the core concepts similar enough?Alternatively, is it better to buy theRHCSA 9 exam vouchernow and stick to the available RHEL 9 material? Is the RHCSA 9 exam voucher even purchasable and if so how long can I purchase it until it will only be RHCSA 10 tests.If RHEL 9 isn't enough, I'm on the hunt for reliableRHCSA 10 study material, ideally in PDF or eBook format. Any recommendations would be hugely appreciated!Thanks in advance for the advice!
Dumb newb-level question for the hive mind - RHEL 9 VMs randomly losing entitlement Dumb newb-level question for the hive mind - RHEL 9 VMs randomly losing entitlementu/Ewing_Fox•2 mo. agoDumb newb-level question for the hive mind - RHEL 9 VMs randomly losing entitlementHello, we register our systems on deployment - on average we have around 120-180 RHEL 9 VM deployed in our environment, and GENERALLY - things are pretty stable. Every VM gets updated nightly but occasionally I'll have a single VM that will give the following error: "This system is registered with an entitlement server, but is not receiving updates. You can use subscription-manager to assign subscriptions."  We use Satellite, and in the RHEL console, we see no errors or reports about problems with our entitlements, subscriptions, ect.- Super helpfully (/s) - RHEL provides this explanation:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/5524661TL;DR:The system was not subscribed with an active subscription.Great. Super helpful.  Not wrong - but not helpful!Other RHEL support articles recommend dnf clean , clearing caches, etc - verifying connectivity/network configuration (all unchanged, and deployed from common templates, configured with ansible automation, so no differences between VM that have this happen and others that are unaffected).The current fix is to log in manually (ugh, really? in 2025?) and unregister and re-register.  Wham! Fixed!Any suggestions for what can cause this? While there is no obvious pattern (age of VM, usage, uptime, etc) that I can find - Murphy's law ensures that whichever one has this problem results in some complex CI/CD pipeline failure followed by the performative tears of my developers.TIA
Questions about relinquishing RHLS certification exam eligibility to coworker. Questions about relinquishing RHLS certification exam eligibility to coworker.u/maketodayhappier•2 mo. agoQuestions about relinquishing RHLS certification exam eligibility to coworker.Can I give my eligibility to coworker?I already hold Redhat certs and I'm not going to take within the RHLS periods.But my colleague is trying to take the Redhat Cert.Can I give them my 5 times eligibility to take Redhat cert exams?I heard it's going to be tied to my RHNID but I also heard I can move the cert to personal account.
"NIC link is down NIC link is up" with cursor stuck for RHEL minimal install on VMware "NIC link is down NIC link is up" with cursor stuck for RHEL minimal install on VMwareu/luuuzeta•2 mo. ago"NIC link is down NIC link is up" with cursor stuck for RHEL minimal install on VMware
RHEL 8 STIG V2R5 Changes RHEL 8 STIG V2R5 Changesu/Aggraxis•2 mo. agoRHEL 8 STIG V2R5 ChangesIt's that time again, but for RHEL 8! Yay STIGs!Added RulesNone! None? Wait a minute...Important Gotchya!RHEL-08-040010- Formerly "RHEL 8 must not have the rsh-server package installed", this rule is now "RHEL 8 must not install packages from the Extra Packages for Enterprise Linux (EPEL) repository". It's time for everyone to eat aCAT 2. CAT 1! What a sneaky way to introduce this change. I would have expected a new STIG entry for something this big.Removed RulesRHEL-08-020000 - RHEL 8 temporary user accounts must be provisioned with an expiration time of 72 hours or lessRule ID, Check Text, and Fix Text Changes (Oh my!)RHEL-08-010455 - Removes % from check and fix texts. You need the % for non-Unix group names and IDs, and I think their intent here was to not confuse someone who was using group names out of IdM, FreeIPA, etc.Rule ID and Check Text ChangesRHEL-08-010672 - Adds "If kernel dumps are disabled in accordance with RHEL-08-010671, this requirement is not applicable."RHEL-08-010673 - Adds "If kernel dumps are disabled in accordance with RHEL-08-010671, this requirement is not applicable."RHEL-08-010674 - Adds "If kernel dumps are disabled in accordance with RHEL-08-010671, this requirement is not applicable."RHEL-08-010675 - Adds "If kernel dumps are disabled in accordance with RHEL-08-010671, this requirement is not applicable."RHEL-08-020015 - Minor grammar edit.RHEL-08-040172 - Minor grammar edit.Rule ID changes onlyRHEL-08-010140RHEL-08-010141RHEL-08-010149RHEL-08-010150RHEL-08-010151RHEL-08-010152RHEL-08-010190RHEL-08-010375RHEL-08-010376Edit: ChangedRHEL-08-040010to CAT 1. Thanks for the catchu/MaterialAccount! That makes the control that much more outrageous. What is it about EL8 that makes this item a CAT 1 when it is a CAT 2 for EL9? Add it to the heap of incredulous questions coming from the community. :)
Is EX188 part of RHCOA cert ( Openshift Architect) ?? Is EX188 part of RHCOA cert ( Openshift Architect) ??u/Pitiful-Text3593•2 mo. agoIs EX188 part of RHCOA cert ( Openshift Architect) ??Dear AllThis is Sid from Bengaluru INDIA 🇮🇳🤩 back with only one query ... as a Openshift aspirant , i started my prep with EX280 couple of months back aming to complete another 5 Openshift cert + EX280 in next 14 - 16 months . The 5 Openshift cert are ( EX380-Scaling /EX430-ACS/EX432-ACM/EX240-API/EX188) ... BUT in RHCOA website EX188 is not mentioned .. my question is , EX188 part of RHCOA??  Pls advice .. 🙏 ...https://www.redhat.com/en/services/certification/red-hat-certified-openshift-architectThx in advance ☺️
RHEL 9 STIG V2R6 Changes RHEL 9 STIG V2R6 Changesu/Aggraxis•2 mo. agoRHEL 9 STIG V2R6 ChangesIt's that time again! Yay STIGs!Added RulesNone! None? Wait a minute...Important Gotchya!RHEL-09-215035- Formerly "RHEL 9 must not have the rsh-server package installed", this rule is now "RHEL 9 must not install packages from the Extra Packages for Enterprise Linux (EPEL) repository". It's time for everyone to eat a CAT 2. What a sneaky way to introduce this change. I would have expected a new STIG entry for something this big.Removed RulesRHEL-09-654096 - audit.rules entries for /etc/cron.d and /var/spool/cronRHEL-09-654260 - audit.rules entry for /var/log/tallylogRule ID (only) ChangesRHEL-09-431016Title ChangeRHEL-09-653040 - Title updated (added the wordreachesbefore 75 percent)Fix and Check Text ChangesI think someone over there is reading my posts...RHEL-09-212020 - Check doesn't materially change, but the fix text has different grub2-mkconfig syntax for 9.2 and earlier vs 9.3 and later.RHEL-09-252040- NetworkManager check fordns =now allows for values ofdefault,none, orsystemd-resolved.RHEL-09-255115- Check text is updated to just key in on permissions changes. Fix text removes thednf reinstall -y openssh-servercommand and just has the two rpm commands for fixing the ugids and perms.Check Text ChangesRHEL-09-211015 - Adds sudo to the check command.RHEL-09-213085 - Adds an N/A statement if the system is compliant with RHEL-09-213040 (disable kernel dumps).RHEL-09-213090 - Adds an N/A statement if the system is compliant with RHEL-09-213040 (disable kernel dumps).RHEL-09-213095 - Adds an N/A statement if the system is compliant with RHEL-09-213040 (disable kernel dumps).RHEL-09-213100 - Adds an N/A statement if the system is compliant with RHEL-09-213040 (disable kernel dumps).RHEL-09-213100 - Adds note that the control does not apply to vfat file systems. (I meanWEknew that, but...)RHEL-09-232040 - Adds sample output for permissions checking.RHEL-09-255100 - Adds second check to ensure the running sshd configuration is compliant.RHEL-09-271105 - Removes some quotation marks.RHEL-09-611170 - Updates grep syntax, sample output.RHEL-09-611190 - Adds N/A statement when using an approved alternate multifactor authentication method. Also updates check text output to show that the command should prompt for a password when the system is in a compliant state.RHEL-09-631010 - Adds N/A statement when using an approved alternate multifactor authentication method.RHEL-09-631015 - Adds N/A statement when using an approved alternate multifactor authentication method.RHEL-09-652025- Remember rsyslog, but you're also Splunking your junk? Guess what?This check is N/A for systems that offload and aggregate their logs via another method.Document this in your paperwork, yeet rsyslog, and move on! No more (less) double log noise!RHEL-09-653110 - Adds a statement "If the audit configuration files have a mode more permissive than those shown, this is a finding."RHEL-09-671010- Adds extra check for showing the crypto policies in place and this statement: "If the policy is not "FIPS" or a FIPS policy authorized by and documented with the ISSO, this is a finding."
EX280 Passed (280/300), but.... EX280 Passed (280/300), but....u/InspectionCold1062•2 mo. agoEX280 Passed (280/300), but....Hi everyone!I wanted to share a quick update: I recently passed my first OpenShift certification,EX280, and finished it in about 2 hours out of the 3 available. I found it quite similar to the CKA (which I also passed), with some differences related to the Red Hat ecosystem of course.I’ve been working on an OpenShift production cluster for about a year now, and to be honest,the certification didn’t feel extremely useful from a practical point of view. I was expecting something a bit more complete — in my opinion, it’s missing several key steps that a real beginner should absolutely master when starting with OpenShift.What do you all think?Did you have the same impression with EX280? Or do you see it more as an introductory stepping stone?Otherwise Next goal: EX380 next year!
Looking for classroom RHCSA training with Job Placement Assistance Looking for classroom RHCSA training with Job Placement Assistanceu/Fine_Classroom•2 mo. agoLooking for classroom RHCSA training with Job Placement AssistanceI prefer to learn the material over the course of 8-12 weeks, test and then get assistance finding roles. I need structure and it's nice to work with others as well.Thanks for your wisdom, time and advice.
EX229 ROSA EX229 ROSAu/Strict_Employment718•2 mo. agoEX229 ROSAHi everyone,I’m planning to take theEX229exam soon and wanted to ask if anyone here has taken it recently.I’d really appreciate any advice on:What the actual exam environment feels likeThe types of tasks or scenarios you found most challengingAny topics I should focus on more than othersTips for time management during the examCommon pitfalls or mistakes to avoidAnything—from study strategies to real exam experience—would be super helpful. Thanks in advance!
EX229 ROSA EX229 ROSAu/Strict_Employment718•2 mo. agoEX229 ROSAHi everyone,I’m planning to take theEX229exam soon and wanted to ask if anyone here has taken it recently.I’d really appreciate any advice on:What the actual exam environment feels likeThe types of tasks or scenarios you found most challengingAny topics I should focus on more than othersTips for time management during the examCommon pitfalls or mistakes to avoidAnything—from study strategies to real exam experience—would be super helpful. Thanks in advance!
Can I know about Redhat Banglore for internship ?? Can I know about Redhat Banglore for internship ??u/Clean_Charity7313•2 mo. agoCan I know about Redhat Banglore for internship ??How's the work culture and pressure in right now a student who got selected as intern over there . And whats the conversion rate please help me....!
How I Finally Passed the RHCSA Exam After Failing Twice (Ask Me Anything) How I Finally Passed the RHCSA Exam After Failing Twice (Ask Me Anything)u/KiberSec•3 mo. agoHow I Finally Passed the RHCSA Exam After Failing Twice (Ask Me Anything)Hey everyone,I’m 40 years old and just passed the RHCSA (EX200) — but it wasn’t easy. I failed twice before finally getting it done on my third try.I’ve been working with Linux for years, mostly on Ubuntu servers, and thought my experience would be enough… but Red Hat’s way of doing things taught me otherwise 😅Here’s what I learned the hard way: •	Don’t listen blindly to “gurus” who say you can pass in a week — you need real hands-on practice. •	Practice systemctl, LVM, firewall-cmd, networking, and user management until they become muscle memory. •	Spin up your own RHEL 9 or AlmaLinux lab in VirtualBox or VMware — that’s where the real learning happens. •	Watch Sander van Vugt’s videos and follow along. His labs are gold. •	Time yourself — you only have 2.5 hours in the exam, and every minute counts.If anyone’s struggling, failed before, or just starting out, feel free to drop your questions below. I’ll answer honestly and share what worked (and what didn’t).Don’t give up — if a 40-year-old guy who failed twice can pass this beast, you can tooEdit: As i see many people have struggled like me, i talked with my teacher. If you wanna contact him, it is his email:agilaliyev@logacademy.azI hope it will be helpful for you
Looking for a 15% off promo code for RHCSA (EX200), any generous folks? Looking for a 15% off promo code for RHCSA (EX200), any generous folks?u/Linux_Inside•2 mo. agoLooking for a 15% off promo code for RHCSA (EX200), any generous folks?I’m planning to take the Red Hat Certified System Administrator (RHCSA)EX200exam soon, but as a student/early-career learner I’m trying to cut costs wherever I can. I’ve seen elsewhere on this subreddit that some people receive a15% discount codeafter passing an exam. If anyone has an unused15% off promo codeor doesn’t plan to use theirs before it expires, I’d be extremely grateful if you could DM me.Thanks in advance to anyone willing to help out!
RHCSA TEST RHCSA TESTu/Captain8Snow•3 mo. agoRHCSA TESTI did the test and I failed so how many attempts do i have ?
Any way to get a lab environment for DO121 (Azure Red Hat OpenShift)? Student subscription doesn’t allow enough quota. Any way to get a lab environment for DO121 (Azure Red Hat OpenShift)? Student subscription doesn’t allow enough quota.u/BicycleAcceptable421•3 mo. agoAny way to get a lab environment for DO121 (Azure Red Hat OpenShift)? Student subscription doesn’t allow enough quota.Hi everyone,I’m currently taking theDO121 – Introduction to Microsoft Azure Red Hat OpenShiftcourse from Red Hat. The course walks through creating an ARO cluster in Azure, checking quotas, increasing DSv3 vCPUs, etc.The issue is: I only have anAzure student subscription, and I can’t do any of the required steps. It doesn’t let me:increase vCPU quotas,use DSv3 VM families,or allocate the minimum 40 vCPUs needed for an ARO cluster.The course doesn’t mention anylab environment, sandbox, or pre-provisioned cluster, or at least I didn’t find anything like that.So my question is:Is there any way to complete DO121 with a lab environment, sandbox, or free trial alternative that allows deploying ARO?Or even:Are there platforms that provide temporary ARO environments for training purposes?Any guidance from people who’ve taken DO121 would be really appreciated 🙏
Red Hat Linux 6.2 Professional unboxing Red Hat Linux 6.2 Professional unboxingu/zr9877•3 mo. agoRed Hat Linux 6.2 Professional unboxing
Remote RHCSA Exam Version (EX200V8K vs RHEL 9/10) Remote RHCSA Exam Version (EX200V8K vs RHEL 9/10)u/Ok_Search9502•3 mo. agoRemote RHCSA Exam Version (EX200V8K vs RHEL 9/10)Hey everyone,I'm planning to take theremote RHCSA examand I’m a bit confused about the exam version.On the official site they mentionEX200V8K, which seems to point to the RHEL 8 version of the exam. But I’m wondering:Is theremoteRHCSA exam the same version as the one taken at an exam center?Will the remote exam be based onRHEL 8, or are they now usingRHEL 9(or even RHEL 10)?Anyone who recently took the remote version—what OS version did you get?Also, if you have anyrecommendations or tips for taking the RHCSA remotely(environment setup, pitfalls, etc.), I’d really appreciate it.Thanks!
RHCE - Question on community and posix modules RHCE - Question on community and posix modulesu/Kiarton•3 mo. agoRHCE - Question on community and posix modulesHello, I'm preparing the RHCE exam and I've been doing labs and exam prep found online, and they always rely on "lvol" or "parted" for disk management foro example.Many tasks are solved using the community and posix modules, so I wanted to know if those are available on the exam environment or if I am setting myself up for disaster.The exam is really costly, so I don't want to waste an attempt.Thanks!
Guys!! Can anyone help me with providing RHCSA (EX200), promotional code?. Guys!! Can anyone help me with providing RHCSA (EX200), promotional code?.u/After_Management361•3 mo. agoGuys!! Can anyone help me with providing RHCSA (EX200), promotional code?.I’m currently unemployed and struggling to pay for this particular cert. My goal is to get into IT from a non technical background. If any of you guys can help me it would be highly appreciated. Thank you!!
Looking for a Serious Study Partner for Red Hat Linux Administration Modules Looking for a Serious Study Partner for Red Hat Linux Administration Modulesu/gangsta_vasu•3 mo. agoLooking for a Serious Study Partner for Red Hat Linux Administration ModulesLooking for a Serious Study Partner for Red Hat Linux Administration Modulesr/IndianCyberHub•3 mo. agoLooking for a Serious Study Partner for Red Hat Linux Administration ModulesHi everyone,I’m currently studying Red Hat Linux administration and looking for a focused, committed study partner to go through the core modules together. My approach is structured and practice-oriented, and I want to collaborate with someone who is equally serious about mastering Linux administration.Topics/Modules I’m covering:User and Group Management File System Management Networking & Firewall Configuration SELinux & System Security Shell Scripting Basics System Services & Process Management Package Management Virtualization & Containers (basic level)What I’m looking for:Someone genuinely committed to learning Linux admin modules Comfortable doing hands-on labs Can collaborate via Discord/Zoom/Google Meet Wants accountability and consistent study sessions5upvotes·17comments
RedHat - Certification RHCSA EX200 - Code promo RedHat - Certification RHCSA EX200 - Code promou/Maleficent_Solid_457•3 mo. agoRedHat - Certification RHCSA EX200 - Code promoHello à tous, y a t il une âme charitable qui peut me communiquer un code promo pour l'examen RHCSA EX200 ?PS : l'examen est il toujours sous RHEL 9? ou bien en 10 ? Même s'il n'y a pas trop de différences.Thanks
Satellite Cleanup Simplified: A Step-by-Step Guide for Red Hat Admins Satellite Cleanup Simplified: A Step-by-Step Guide for Red Hat Adminsu/waldirio•3 mo. agoSatellite Cleanup Simplified: A Step-by-Step Guide for Red Hat Admins
Download Repos from Windows Workstation Download Repos from Windows Workstationu/Quartzalcoatl_Prime•3 mo. agoDownload Repos from Windows WorkstationI am an admin on my own air-gapped networks, but not for our unclassified public-facing networks (NIPR). Since I do not have my own Red Hat workstation at work, I cannot access the CDN to do a simple reposync or wget. I'm getting blocked when it comes to trying to use Windows Subsystem for Linux since I'm just a user on my Windows PC. I would use Red Hat Satellite if, again, I wasn't just a user on Windows.I'm a little blocked here unless I download it at home, but I would prefer not to have to rely on a home solution for a work-related problem, and other admins need to be able to do this as well. I also don't like the idea of using our security team's CDs with a 50GB limit, or the idea of doing that quarterly/monthly.
Solution Architect vs. OpenShift Engineering roles (Italy/EMEA). Advice? Solution Architect vs. OpenShift Engineering roles (Italy/EMEA). Advice?u/Pethron•3 mo. agoSolution Architect vs. OpenShift Engineering roles (Italy/EMEA). Advice?Hi everyone,I’m looking to make a move to Red Hat soon (based in Italy) and I’m at a bit of a crossroads. I’ve been working in the AWS ecosystem for about 10 years, covering everything from heavy infrastructure/DevOps to Solution Architecture and pre-sales.I’m looking at two specific open roles:Senior Software Engineer (OpenShift)andSenior Solution Architect.I could use a reality check from anyone on the inside, especially if you're in EMEA.The Context:My Background:10 YOE. Strong software engineering roots (Python/Ruby/Polyglot), but lately very focused on AWS architecture, pre-sales, and high-level design.The Dilemma:I’m trying to optimize for both career growth and salary, but I don't want to end up in a role I hate.Senior Software Engineer (OpenShift)I’d love to get back to building the platform rather than just using it.The Catch:My background is infrastructure-heavy, but I haven't usedGoprofessionally. I can read it and hacked on pet projects, but I’m not an expert yet.The Question:Is not being a "Go wizard" a dealbreaker for a Senior role? Or will deep infra/cloud knowledge get me in the door while I ramp up?Senior Solution ArchitectThis feels like the natural fit given my recent experience.The Catch:I’m worried about becoming a "PowerPoint engineer." I know the pay is potentially higher, but do SAs at Red Hat (in Europe) actually get to prototype and touch the tech? Or is it pure sales support?Travel:I’ve heard this can be heavy on travel. With a family, I can manage it if the money is right, but is it constant? How does this work?TL;DR:How does two roles look in the day-by-day?Will OpenShift engineering hire a Senior dev who needs to learn Go on the job?How technical is the SA role in EMEA? Is it mostly slideware?Any insights on the salary difference/trajectory between these two in EMEA?Thanks for any advice!
AWS VPN Client on RHEL 10? AWS VPN Client on RHEL 10?u/Computerist1969•3 mo. agoAWS VPN Client on RHEL 10?Hi,I have a single use case where I need to run an AWS VPN Client to access a gitea instance. Is there any way to do this on RHEL?Thanks.
rpm to install modern rust retro-styled terminal multiplexer with a classic MS-DOS aesthetic rpm to install modern rust retro-styled terminal multiplexer with a classic MS-DOS aestheticu/aq-39•3 mo. agorpm to install modern rust retro-styled terminal multiplexer with a classic MS-DOS aestheticA modern rust retro-styled terminal multiplexer with a classic MS-DOS aestheticr/commandline•3 mo. agoA modern rust retro-styled terminal multiplexer with a classic MS-DOS aesthetic209upvotes·42comments
Roles vs collections Roles vs collectionsu/it-pappa•3 mo. agoRoles vs collectionsRoles vs collectionsr/ansible•3 mo. agoRoles vs collectionsWith ansible project, do you: And why? Where do you add ansible.cfg if all roles are in one folder?10comments
Discounted RHCSA Discounted RHCSAu/Clean_Explanation609•3 mo. agoDiscounted RHCSAAny discounted RHCSA exam coupon code available for india. Really need it.Thanks in advance.
EX200 Voucher question EX200 Voucher questionu/Xavi_m2002•3 mo. agoEX200 Voucher questionI have a question regarding obtaining an EX200 voucher, so prior to get the voucher, how do I know in which version I'm getting tested, my case is I'm studying for the RHEL9 and I see the last version is the 10. Is there any way where I can see in which version I'm getting tested?Thank you and happy thanksgiving to everyone!
Exam RHCSA remotely Exam RHCSA remotelyu/Little_Ordinary1162•3 mo. agoExam RHCSA remotelyDoes anyone know where I can take the exam remotely? I'm from Venezuela, but it seems no company or partner here offers it. I tried to buy it through the official website, but they refunded my money due to Argentine policies or something similar.
EX 200 EX 200u/Djpetras•3 mo. agoEX 200Hi. Is completing the Udemy course‘The BEST Linux Administration course for corporate jobs and RHCSA, RHCE, LFCS, LPIC and CompTIA Linux+ certifications’by Imran Afzal enough to pass the RHCSA exam?If no share what extra course or something else I need put on top my plan.
Did Red Hat wall off knowledgebase QA? Did Red Hat wall off knowledgebase QA?u/scheimong•3 mo. agoDid Red Hat wall off knowledgebase QA?UpdateNo, it's probably just some caching and/or propagation delay. I had just renewed my developer subscription about an hour before; seems like it took some time for the knowledgebase servers to pick that up.TL;DR, no it's not walled off, but a no-cost developer subscription is required.Was trying to debug an issue I had today and came across aRed Hat QA. It used to be that logging intoanyRed Hat account was sufficient to view these QAs in the knowledgebase (I don't even think a no-cost developer subscription was required IIRC), but today I found myself walled-off even after logging in, telling me I need an active subscription (presumably a paid one).Did this change actually happen or am I mistakenly remembering something else that looked similar? If so, is this how it's going to be going forward?
Unable to select the correct network for screen sharing in 9.6 Unable to select the correct network for screen sharing in 9.6u/IdleWanderlust•3 mo. agoUnable to select the correct network for screen sharing in 9.6
Any one who takes RedHat Security EX415 ? Any one who takes RedHat Security EX415 ?u/Expensive_Map1933•3 mo. agoAny one who takes RedHat Security EX415 ?https://www.pluralsight.com/labs/aws/red-hat-certified-specialist-in-security-ex415-practice-exam
9.6 EUS repos enabled, but still seeing old vulns? 9.6 EUS repos enabled, but still seeing old vulns?u/gothaggis•3 mo. ago9.6 EUS repos enabled, but still seeing old vulns?New to EUS support.   Our security scanner is picking up all sorts of vulns for a RHEL 9.6 system that is subscribed to the eus repos.  I thought maybe this was a false positive, but it seems that the RHEL console also shows these same vulns.  One example would be CVE-2023-52355 - libtiff (RHSA-2025:20801).  These didn't show up until 9.7 was released of course.  I'm trying to figure out if this is a false positive (doesn't seem to be), if the updated package just hasn't been released for 9.6 EUS yet, or if there is something wrong with my EUS subscription/repo.  What is the best way of finding out this info and remediating this?  The subscription content access mode is set to Simple Content Access.# dnf repolist  Updating Subscription Management repositories.  This system has release set to 9.6 and it receives updates only for this release.  repo id                                                  repo name codeready-builder-for-rhel-9-x86_64-rpms                 Red Hat CodeReady Linux Builder for RHEL 9 x86_64 (RPMs) epel                                                     Extra Packages for Enterprise Linux 9 - x86_64 epel-cisco-openh264                                      Extra Packages for Enterprise Linux 9 openh264 (From Cisco) - x86_64 rhel-9-for-x86_64-appstream-eus-rpms                     Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9 for x86_64 - AppStream - Extended Update Support (RPMs) rhel-9-for-x86_64-baseos-eus-rpms                        Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9 for x86_64 - BaseOS - Extended Update Support (RPMs)andrpm -q --changelog libtiff * Mon Oct 20 2025 RHEL Packaging Agent <jotnar@redhat.com> - 4.4.0-13.2 - fix CVE-2025-8176 off-by-one error skipping first line in tiffdither   and tiffmedian - Resolves: RHEL-120243  * Fri Oct 10 2025 RHEL Packaging Agent <jotnar@redhat.com> - 4.4.0-13.1 - fix CVE-2025-9900 buffer underflow in TIFFReadRGBAImageOriented - Resolves: RHEL-112542  * Wed Aug 21 2024 Michal Hlavinka <mhlavink@redhat.com> - 4.4.0-13 - fix CVE-2024-7006 a null pointer dereference in tif_dirinfo (RHEL-52931)  * Thu Nov 23 2023 Matej Mužila <mmuzila@redhat.com> - 4.4.0-12 - Fix CVE-2023-6228 - Resolves: RHEL-10084
Finally Passed. Extremely Grateful! Finally Passed. Extremely Grateful!u/Foreva-Empty•3 mo. agoFinally Passed. Extremely Grateful!At first I wasn't going to post this because my score wasn't very impressive compared to others. I know, I know, we should not compare ourselves to others. It's just hard sometimes, ya know. Then I remembered how I also felt, when others showed it can be accomplished. Which was Hope, Inspiration, and Never Quit attitude and more than anything HAVE FUN! Plus, Just as I was drawn to this community motivated by other's success stories, maybe my post may help someone too...who knows maybe.I started studying for the RHCSA after a fellow colleague mentioned to pursue that over Linux+ in June because the RHCSA is more widely recognized. Not to belittle Linux+, that's just a fact. Like most from this subreddit recommended, I ended up buying the Sander VanVugt Physical Book + Video Course on O'Reilly. I also bought the Asghar Ghori book too. By the time I took my first attempt, I made sure I was doing really well on the practice exams so I felt somewhat confident going into my first RHCSA Exam in September. Man, was I in for a rude awakening. I struggled it seemed for like for 30+ mins on the 1st task. I can laugh about it now, but at the time I was legit freaking out.Long story short, I failed it....BAD. And to be honest, This absolutely crushed me. It's been over 3 years since I had tested for a certification, so I forgot how bad it felt to really prepare for something so hard and still come up short. Because I was so distraught, I literally had to take a break from Linux. That break ended up being a month. I mean I didn't even bother looking at a Linux book, Linux video or notes. After coming back to this subreddit and seeing the success stories. I noticed an underlying common theme. Most, if not all the people that pass had fun. Some even made the comment that it was the most fun exam they have taken because of how practical is.Well, that October I had to relearn Linux again. I made sure to focus on the fundamentals and put extra practice on areas I was weak in. This time I didn't just limit myself to Sander & Asghar. It seemed like watched every single RHCSA video on YT I could get my hand on. Cool thing about Linux, there is more than one way to skin a cat. And I found that through some of the videos. Would you believe it, I was actually starting to have FUN this time around.I totally understand why they say you'll most likely pass it the second time around if you don't pass it the first try. Which is what I did! I was so pumped and ecstatic, I couldn't wait to share the news with my Family and Friends. Also, sharing that I was taking this challenge also forced accountability, ya know.All that to say is this, you most definitely can do it. No one's journey is the same and most importantly...now that I look back on it, that exam was most definitely FUN!!If you read this far, Thank you! Oh! My score was 229 :) !!!!!!!!!!!     Yep, I just checked, this was my first post. Hope it was a good one!
how do you deal with this as a desktop? how do you deal with this as a desktop?u/crankysysadmin•3 mo. agohow do you deal with this as a desktop?I'm not sure who designed gnome but it goes against the way every other OS works. I want the dock to display at all times and not flip back and forth the way it is set up. I can't imagine a lot of people like this.Do you get used to it? Do you use another window manager? What is supported?
Fresher self-studying Linux/DevOps, feeling stuck even after lots of effort need guidance Fresher self-studying Linux/DevOps, feeling stuck even after lots of effort need guidanceu/Neat_Golf5031•3 mo. agoFresher self-studying Linux/DevOps, feeling stuck even after lots of effort need guidanceHey everyone, I posted here few weeks ago abouthttps://www.reddit.com/r/redhat/comments/1ordopv/fresher_from_bsc_computer_science_electronics/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web3x&utm_name=web3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_buttonabout my goal to become a Linux Admin or DevOps engineer. I’m a 2025 BSc graduate (Computer Science, Electronics, Mathematics) and I’m teaching myself with no master’s possible right now.My GitHub practice log:https://github.com/Bharath6911/rhcsa-practice(I’ve built home labs, logged commands, and I’m studying for the RHCSA EX200.)Here’s what’s going on:I watch videos, do labs, write down every step, push everything to GitHub.But lately I keep thinking: am I actually learning? Or just going through motions?I don’t have money for the RHCSA exam yet. I’m trying to pay for it myself without asking family (because I have some debt, and they’ve already helped a lot).I’m applying for intern / junior-level Linux admin and support roles via Naukri, Indeed, company portals, LinkedIn messages. I get a few replies but no interview calls yet.The pressure of time and money builds every day: I want a role that gives me experience + income so I can afford the exam + support my family.My question to you all:Is this realistic path?Whatspecific skills or labsshould I focus on that make a fresher Linux Admin job more likely?Whereexactlycan I find these intern/junior Linux admin/support roles (on-site or remote)?Any personal stories from others who self-studied Linux and broke in would mean a lot.Thanks in advance for any guidance.
Are RH Vouchers Region Specific? Are RH Vouchers Region Specific?u/First-Decision-5816•3 mo. agoAre RH Vouchers Region Specific?I purchased an RHCSA exam voucher, but now I need to travel long term abroad. Is it possible to still use the voucher to book at a testing center or for a remotely proctored exam, or will this be an issue taking it in another country?
Does opensource.com no longer maintained ??? Does opensource.com no longer maintained ???u/seddikalaouiismaili•3 mo. agoDoes opensource.com no longer maintained ???It seems we cannot load more articles, also search feature doesn't work :(
Which certification for containers and kubernetes Which certification for containers and kubernetesu/khaloudkhaloud•3 mo. agoWhich certification for containers and kubernetesHello all,I have passed this year CKA, Cilium certification, and soon i will pass the RHCSAWhich certification would be good for container and Kubernetes "stack", and which is asked in the job market
Severe Design Flaw in JBoss EAP 8 Severe Design Flaw in JBoss EAP 8u/ElektroBerti•3 mo. agoSevere Design Flaw in JBoss EAP 8Severe Design Flaw in JBoss EAP 8r/jboss•3 mo. agoSevere Design Flaw in JBoss EAP 8We recently stumbled upon what appears to be a severe design flaw in JBoss EAP 8 when using the elytron-oidc-client.If you enable OIDC inside a WAR that’s packaged within a large EAR, and that EAR also contains additional WAR modules with their own explicitly defined SecurityDomains, things break in a pretty unexpected way.After the first DeploymentUnit that initializes with OIDC, all subsequent WAR modules end up being assigned the SecurityDomain “Virtual”, regardless of what is actually configured for them.As soon as Undertow tries to set a proper SecurityDomain for one of those other WARs—e.g., because it exposes a web service—the deployment immediately fails with the following exception:ELY01148: A SecurityDomain has already been associated with the specified ClassLoaderThis essentially means that enabling OIDC in just one module contaminates the rest of the deployment, breaking any WAR that relies on its own security configuration.Has anyone run into this as well? Is there a known workaround or Red Hat issue for this? It feels like a deep architectural problem in how EAP 8 wires Elytron OIDC into the deployment class loaders.1upvote·3comments
RHCSA exam material RHCSA exam materialu/Little_Ordinary1162•3 mo. agoRHCSA exam materialHi guys, I want to know what material do you used to prepare to the RHCSA exam, I'm thinking take the exam soon and I want to prepare well.
Hummingbird: Red Hat’s Answer to Alpine, Ubuntu Chiseled, Wolfi Hummingbird: Red Hat’s Answer to Alpine, Ubuntu Chiseled, Wolfiu/CackleRooster•3 mo. agoHummingbird: Red Hat’s Answer to Alpine, Ubuntu Chiseled, Wolfihttps://thenewstack.io/hummingbird-red-hats-answer-to-alpine-ubuntu-chiseled-wolfi/
debug3: set_sock_tos: set socket 3 IP_TOS 0x48 debug3: set_sock_tos: set socket 3 IP_TOS 0x48u/TryllZ•3 mo. agodebug3: set_sock_tos: set socket 3 IP_TOS 0x48Hi All,Yesterday I was trying to add a persistent route to a Redhat 8 VM, and added the following command/sbin/ip route add192.168.75.0/24via dev eth2Then after a reboot I ran into issies trying to access the VM via SSH, and I see no activity after this line when usingssh root@IP -vvvdebug3: set_sock_tos: set socket 3 IP_TOS 0x48I triwd accessing via SSH by adding various parameter to the -o switch, like PAM no and QoS, but none of them worked..Strangely, when the VM is booting up and I try to access via SSH I can access it (sometimes)..Any thoughts how I can fix this issue..
RHEL6 support RHEL6 supportu/MouseShadow2ndMoon•3 mo. agoRHEL6 supportHi All,Is there a company that can handle a month-to-month support model, or a per-incident model for RHEL 6? We are going to have a lapse in coverage in January from the support contract expiring and these RHEL6 servers being migrated to 8 and into our Azure tenant. I have talked to a few, and it seems to be a rare offering.Thanks!
RHCSA Black Friday Discount RHCSA Black Friday Discountu/Successful_Club_8766•3 mo. agoRHCSA Black Friday DiscountI was wondering if there would be any Black Friday discounts?
RHOSO Monitoring RHOSO Monitoringu/Jayesh-Chaudhari•3 mo. agoRHOSO MonitoringHi I am Openstack engineer, recently deployed RHOSP 18 which is openstack on openshift. I am bit confused about how observability will be setup for the OCP and OSP. How crd like openstackcontrolplane will be monitored ? I need someone to help me with direction and overview of observability on RHOSO. Thanks in advance.
Red Hat Introduces Project Hummingbird for "Zero-CVE" Strategies Red Hat Introduces Project Hummingbird for "Zero-CVE" Strategiesu/mmcgrath•3 mo. agoRed Hat Introduces Project Hummingbird for "Zero-CVE" Strategieshttps://www.redhat.com/en/about/press-releases/red-hat-introduces-project-hummingbird-zero-cve-strategies
I passed RHCSA this monday, after 2+ months of studying I passed RHCSA this monday, after 2+ months of studyingu/RealityNecessary2023•3 mo. agoI passed RHCSA this monday, after 2+ months of studyingI know, not mentioning Sander Van Vugt‘s books and courses are a sacrilege on this sub, and although his book did help, it wasn‘t as good as I expected, especially the practice exams at the end of his book wasn’t really reflectve of what I got in the exam.What helped the most for me was Ghada Atef‘s practice exams on Udemy. They are simply very well made, with a clear structure, enough repetitions on crucial tasks, but also with enough variations, so you don‘t get caught off guard on certain tasks. I did two iterations of these practice exams, before taking the exam. For people who just want to start practicing, I recommend this :) there are also detailed explanations about each task, so you learn enough of what‘s going on behind as well.
RHEL 10.1 Soft Reboot Slashes Downtime for Updates RHEL 10.1 Soft Reboot Slashes Downtime for Updatesu/CackleRooster•3 mo. agoRHEL 10.1 Soft Reboot Slashes Downtime for Updateshttps://thenewstack.io/rhel-10-1-soft-reboot-slashes-downtime-for-updates/
Identifying and Reporting Packages on Red Hat Satellite: A Tutorial Identifying and Reporting Packages on Red Hat Satellite: A Tutorialu/waldirio•3 mo. agoIdentifying and Reporting Packages on Red Hat Satellite: A Tutorial
Automating RHEL 7.x server upgrades to supported versions Automating RHEL 7.x server upgrades to supported versionsu/jrjddhddhh•3 mo. agoAutomating RHEL 7.x server upgrades to supported versionsHello :P,Lately we've been upgrading legacy servers to RHEL8.10 from unsupported versions.We've found it to be very exhausting, we have hundreds of virtual machines running RHEL7 and we are looking for some way to automate the process of in place upgrades with Leapp.We are managing our environment with ansible automation platform alone. We are now considering installing sattelite server as well.How would you manage the upgrade process, and how can we change conceptually to proactively keep up with the Life cycle of red hat linux major releases?
Satellite 6 repository sync cancel question Satellite 6 repository sync cancel questionu/xDind•3 mo. agoSatellite 6 repository sync cancel questionHiya there. I have inherited a Satellite 6.16 server. The server currently has a repository sync job for RHEL 8 BaseOS, and its been in a hung state for over 24 hours. How would one go about force canceling the job without leaving the repository in an inconsistent state or at least recovering from the repository being in an inconsistent state (if that were to happen)? Thank you much for any help.
Red Hat Openstack - Bare metal deployment - subscription count Red Hat Openstack - Bare metal deployment - subscription countu/Relevant_Anything949•3 mo. agoRed Hat Openstack - Bare metal deployment - subscription countDear Red Hat community,I'm required to validate the license requirements for the openstack deployment we have. Online I find very clear information from Red hat on how to count Openshift licenses, but there is no clear documentation how to calculate the amount of OpenStack licenses.For Openshift, only worker nodes require a license.What is the case for Openstack? Do only the compute nodes require a Bare Metal license or also the Controller and other nodes?
Pacemaker/DRBD: Auto-failback kills active DRBD Sync Primary to Secondary. How to prevent this? Pacemaker/DRBD: Auto-failback kills active DRBD Sync Primary to Secondary. How to prevent this?u/Ushan_Destiny•3 mo. agoPacemaker/DRBD: Auto-failback kills active DRBD Sync Primary to Secondary. How to prevent this?Hi everyone,I am testing a 2-node Pacemaker/Corosync + DRBD cluster (Active/Passive). Node 1 is Primary; Node 2 is Secondary.I have a setup where node1 has a location preference score of 50.The Scenario:I simulated a failure on Node 1. Resources successfully failed over to Node 2.While running on Node 2, I started a large file transfer (SCP) to the DRBD mount point.While the transfer was running, I brought Node 1 back online.Pacemaker immediately moved the resources back to Node 1.The Result:The SCP transfer on Node 2 was killed instantly, resulting in a partial/corrupted file on the disk.My Question:I assumed Pacemaker or DRBD would wait for active write operations or data sync to complete before switching back, but it seems to have just killed the processes on Node 2 to satisfy the location constraint on Node 1.Is this expected behavior? (Does Pacemaker not care about active user sessions/jobs?)How do I configure the cluster to stay on Node 2 until sync complete? My requirement is to keep the Node1 always as the master.Is there a risk of filesystem corruption doing this, or just interrupted transactions?My Config:stonith-enabled=false (I know this is bad, just testing for now)default-resource-stickiness=0Location Constraint: Resource prefers node1=50Thanks for the help!(used Gemini to enhance grammar and readability)
Take RHCSA Rhel 9 or 10? Take RHCSA Rhel 9 or 10?u/One_Presentation_139•3 mo. agoTake RHCSA Rhel 9 or 10?I've taken Sander Van Vugt's Rhel 9 RHCSA course and almost complete. But I still have a long way to go practicing for the exam. I don't have prior professional experience in Linux(only basic individual stuff before). Got plenty AWS certs and hoping for a career in Cloud/AI. Would you recommend taking Rhel 9 or 10 exam?(I'm hoping to take the exam within 2months), started learning in September. (Canada)
Hello guys, I need help with me exam bought Hello guys, I need help with me exam boughtu/Little_Ordinary1162•3 mo. agoHello guys, I need help with me exam boughtI purchased the exam for RHCSA but I paid using the payment methods named "pre-paid" and my order was processed by Argentina's team. But I'm not sure if a need send the capture about the transaction to somewhere or something like that, the email that I received doesn't mention nothing about what is the next after I did the pay. Someone know if a need wait or what I need to do ?
Quarkus with Buildpacks and OpenShift Builds - Piotr's TechBlog Quarkus with Buildpacks and OpenShift Builds - Piotr's TechBlogu/piotr_minkowski•3 mo. agoQuarkus with Buildpacks and OpenShift Builds - Piotr's TechBloghttps://piotrminkowski.com/2025/11/19/quarkus-with-buildpacks-and-openshift-builds/
Single user mode in 10 Single user mode in 10u/Unnamed-3891•3 mo. agoSingle user mode in 10Am I missing something or is single user mode ”almost” inaccesible in the default configuration of 10.x? To get into emergency target, you MUST supply root password, which is something that does not exist by default as the account is disabled.Normally you would drop to rd.break, remount rw, chroot into / and change/set your root password to obtain it, but… dracut people in their infinite wisdom somehow decided that chroot binary is not something anybody would ever need in the default configuration (nevermind the actual real world reality that 99% of the use case for single user mode is resetting misplaced root credentials).So you can’t use passwd. You could try wrangling your shadow file with sed and hope that your keyboard locale works in your server console and the hash you created elsewhere isn’t too crazy to type in. Or you could use alternative boot media entirely.For our internal needs, I solved this by creating a custom dracut config that ensures chroot ends up in initramfs every time. But seriously, am I the only one who thinks that single user mode being almost entirely unreachable in the default configuration is pure insanity?
Up to date course/book for RHCSA? Up to date course/book for RHCSA?u/___xXx__xXx__xXx__•3 mo. agoUp to date course/book for RHCSA?I got a hold of Vugt's 2023 RHCSA exam prep book, but I've already noticed there's a couple of out of date things in it for the current version of RHEL.  Modules, specifically, are apparently deprecated.Vugt's book is what everyone seems to recommend, and the 2023 seems to be the most recent.What's a better way to go?
RHEL 10.1 ansible nmcli mtu setting issues? RHEL 10.1 ansible nmcli mtu setting issues?u/zenfridge•3 mo. agoRHEL 10.1 ansible nmcli mtu setting issues?We've got an ansible play (core) that has worked with RHEL 7 / 8.10 / 9.6 / 10.0, where we set mtu to 9000.  We do so using the nmcli community module.  This has worked fine.I'm starting to get all our roles/playbooks tuned for 10.1, and this play (even just attempting to set 1500 for this example!) fails, as in we lose the network on the remote machine:- name: Set MTU for a network connectioncommunity.general.nmcli:conn_name: my_connectiontype: ethernetstate: presentmtu: 1500anyone played with 10.1 in this situation yet and have any ideas?Worked fine with 10.0 on same machine/guest/etc, so seems like something specific to 10.1.  I'll start looking through release notes, but thought I'd check with community...
Setting Cockpit Ciphers Setting Cockpit Ciphersu/Zestyclose_Cricket49•3 mo. agoSetting Cockpit CiphersDoes anyone know how to set cockpit ciphers?  I'm trying to block TLS_AES_128_CCM_SHA256  and the server is RHEL 9.7 w/FIPS enabled and SELinux Enforcing.  To test I'm usingcurl -v --tls13-ciphers "TLS_AES_128_CCN_SHA256"https://myhost:9090I tried creating a FIPS Policy under/etc/crypto-policies/local.dand creating a/etc/cockpit/gnutls.configto no avail.Is there a straight forward link to setting ciphers for cockpit on a bare RHEL 9.x install with just cockpit?Thanks
yum to dnf who did the upgrade yum to dnf who did the upgradeu/Queasy-Objective3834•3 mo. agoyum to dnf who did the upgradeyum historyby default showed who did a yum transaction.dnf historydoes not. How do I find out who did an update with DNF? Without having to dig through logs by hand.
Redhat folks:  Trying to download Cheat Sheets from the Developer portal, timing out with errors. Redhat folks:  Trying to download Cheat Sheets from the Developer portal, timing out with errors.u/Hot-Season9142•3 mo. agoRedhat folks:  Trying to download Cheat Sheets from the Developer portal, timing out with errors.Using Company Login and/or Developer Login (results the same).Picked two Cheat Sheets to download:Podman:An error occurred while processing your request.Reference #221.8a813217.1763407997.257eb9dchttps://errors.edgesuite.net/221.8a813217.1763407997.257eb9dcKubernetes:An error occurred while processing your request.Reference #221.8a813217.1763408329.25ab3c80https://errors.edgesuite.net/221.8a813217.1763408329.25ab3c80
AAP with Developer License AAP with Developer Licenseu/rodfantana•3 mo. agoAAP with Developer LicenseHi all.  Is there any way to run AAP on more than 16 hosts in the inventory (host metrics)?   I need to add some vmware VMs and I don't have a dev license count to allocate.What are my options? TIA
Best practices for controlling disk growth in shared Linux work directories (/work)? Best practices for controlling disk growth in shared Linux work directories (/work)?u/Beneficial-Study-675•3 mo. agoBest practices for controlling disk growth in shared Linux work directories (/work)?Our team is struggling with disk space issues on a shared Linux server, and I’m wondering how other teams handle this.We have a shared/workdirectory where multiple developers and teams store their temporary files, dumps, logs, test outputs, etc. Over time, this directory grows uncontrollably and starts filling up the entire disk.We're considering building a small Go tool that:scans/worklists files in descending sizeexports the results as a CSVoptionally skips certain directories (like/work/app)maybe deletes files older than X days (not sure yet)However, I assume many teams must have already solved this problem.Before we reinvent the wheel, I’d like to ask:How do you manage disk usage on shared Linux environments?Do you enforce directory naming rules like/work/{username}_backend?Do you have automated tools that regularly report large files?Do you automatically delete files older than N days?Do you use quotas for each user/team?Does anyone wipe/workperiodically (e.g., monthly cleanup)?Any horror stories or best practices?Our ideal case would be to completely wipe/workexcept for whitelisted paths, but I’m not sure if that’s realistic or common.Any insights, tooling suggestions, or policies that worked for you would be greatly appreciated.
RHCSA exams discount RHCSA exams discountu/emkay25•3 mo. agoRHCSA exams discountIs there any discount to take the RHCSA exams, the cost is just too much? And if someone fails the exams, can they retake? Is there a wait period before they become eligible? Thanks
Running .NET Apps on OpenShift - Piotr's TechBlog Running .NET Apps on OpenShift - Piotr's TechBlogu/piotr_minkowski•3 mo. agoRunning .NET Apps on OpenShift - Piotr's TechBloghttps://piotrminkowski.com/2025/11/17/running-net-apps-on-openshift
How do I find out exam schedules in the UK? How do I find out exam schedules in the UK?u/___xXx__xXx__xXx__•3 mo. agoHow do I find out exam schedules in the UK?I'm failing badly at getting Google or ChatGPT to answer this for me.I'm looking to see when and where RHCSA exams are available in the UK.  From what I can find, the procedure is to spend £600 and then just hope exam availability is present and acceptable.I can't just do that.  I can't have it tell me "sorry, only in person exams on the other side of the country are available", or "sorry, next slot for remote is in 10 months".When I did my last AWS cert, full exam schedule was viewable before parting with money.
What is wrong with OpenShift Local ? What is wrong with OpenShift Local ?u/Existing-Athlete•3 mo. agoWhat is wrong with OpenShift Local ?Hello gents,I'm trying to "play" with this cutting-edge-technology called OpenShift Local on a macOS.Let's get over the fact that on the "official" - 4.19.13 bundle you can't even start it due to some cert that is expired on something like this if I recall correctly. No issue right ? Found the 4.20.1 bundle - install it - no Operators. Well, let's try the 4.20.2 one, again, no Operators. Let's try it with 4.19.8, finally, I have the Operators Tab or whatever it's called, cool, let's install Ansible Automation Platform. Awesome, we have two channels, 2.5 and 2.6, trying to install the latest one. I start creating an automation controller - Server error - checking logs - some Django template error index.html not found. Let's try to create an automation hub - same God damn error.Let me apply the same "logic" and try an older version right ? Installed. the 2.5 one. Working now or at least I can login and I need to select a subscription but I can't login with my RedHat account so I can select my subscription ( as far as I'm able to tell - some cert error regarding thatsubscription.redhat.comaddress )What the heck I'm doing wrong ? It must be me right ? Nobody had these issues, right ?Thank you ! and sorry if my storytelling abilities are not on par with this amazing tech.
RHEL 10: tigervnc-server's equivalent? RHEL 10: tigervnc-server's equivalent?u/teclast4561•3 mo. agoRHEL 10: tigervnc-server's equivalent?What's the equivalent ofhttps://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/getting_started_with_the_gnome_desktop_environment/remotely-accessing-the-desktop-as-multiple-users_getting-started-with-the-gnome-desktop-environment?It was working perfectly for multi-user on RHEL 8 and 9 and someone decided to remove tigervnc-server to replace it with nothing letting the users without alternatives.I foundhttps://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/10/html/administering_rhel_by_using_the_gnome_desktop_environment/remotely-accessing-the-desktopbut I do not want to share my current local login session...
RH294 - Red Hat Enterprise Linux Automation with Linux RH294 - Red Hat Enterprise Linux Automation with Linuxu/Hympingboy•3 mo. agoRH294 - Red Hat Enterprise Linux Automation with LinuxDifficult for me to afford this, in order to prepare for the RHCE certification but curious, if this training is enough to pass the exam.
Need to install ruby for redmine Need to install ruby for redmine[deleted]•3 mo. agoNeed to install ruby for redmineHi guys, I need to install Ruby as a prerequisite for Redmine. I need the 3.2 or 3.3 or 3.4 version in order to install the latest version of Redmine. But in the repo I have ruby 3.0 only? What can I do please?
Failed RHCE v8.5  95/300 - rhcsa expires tomorrow, burnt out Failed RHCE v8.5  95/300 - rhcsa expires tomorrow, burnt outu/SnooStories1237•3 mo. agoFailed RHCE v8.5  95/300 - rhcsa expires tomorrow, burnt outThe results of your recent EX294 Red Hat Certified Engineer Exam are reported below.Exam domain number:     10Passing score:          210Your score:             92Result: NO PASSPerformance on exam objectives:OBJECTIVE: SCOREUnderstand core components of Ansible: 41%Install and configure Ansible: 0%Run ad-hoc Ansible commands: 100%Use Ansible modules for system administration tasks: 44%Create Ansible plays and playbooks: 25%Create and use templates to create customized configuration files: 0%Work with Ansible variables and facts: 0%Create and work with roles: 5%Download and use roles with Ansible Galaxy: 100%Use Ansible Vault in playbooks to protect sensitive data: 29%This is my final score. I don't know how I gained a 0 for installing ansible, jinja templates and vars/ansible_facts (though did used group_vars) since checked if they successfully deployed which they did at least within roles.  create roles was working fine too, But I know I ran out of time anyway that even if the score was higher it would not been enough to passAdvice: once you setup your ansible environment, Skip Ansible roles to go straight to the tasks as they aren't dependent on each other and those will be easier to complete, I wish I used my time more wisely this way. I also recommend keeping all tasks at a 15 minute priority, if you feel it may take longer revisit later to check the others. Before scheduling, don't skip magical variables as you will actually need to use them.  Also learn every form of security encryption since you be handling accounts and you can be asked to do it one way or the other on how they should verify themselves.I'm thankful red hat provides retry vouchers if you fails, but that said I don't know if I should continue anymore. Even if I pass, I need to renew rhcsa on top of that but I already ate into my savings to prepare for this exam and been unemployed for 3 months now - I was a ISP's  NOC tech where didn't even touched either ansible or Linux at work. The job market is bad, and it seem any Linux ones wanted containerized cloud engineer  - not my prior MSP times of troubleshooting Apaches or changing ssh ports for SOC. My hope was at the organization I could've   join the devops team, or  finally been a full fledged Linux administrator since we had rhel but no one officially managing them. But layoffs happens, which probably was for the best - spent so much time on commuting I only had a hour to decompress before bed and it's not like theirs a qemu lab waiting at work for me.... overall 3 years on Linux and love learning, but can't do that while unable to pay rents. Sorry for that rant, I guess just don't know what to do from here.
rhcsa exam 9.3 rhcsa exam 9.3u/Salty_Nothing_5609•3 mo. agorhcsa exam 9.3am asking about rh124 and rh134 v 9.3 pleaseand if there are any dumps and mock exams !thank u
RHEL or CentOS, or anything else for homelab? RHEL or CentOS, or anything else for homelab?u/NiceRedditUsername_•3 mo. agoRHEL or CentOS, or anything else for homelab?Good evening.(n00b question inbound...)Switched from windows ecosystem to Linux couple months ago and Fedora happened to somehow be the Distro to fit my daily needs.I am currently in the process of setting up a server machine for multitude of tasks (Media/Cloud server, Node apps, Game application hosting, etc).As I am quite happy fedora, the thought was to continue with the rpm ecosystem and maybe try out CentOS as heard it to be quite lightweight and stable. At the same time, I heard that you can get limited amount of RHEL licenses for free.So to put it simply - Why or should I use RHEL? Should I consider something else for my ideas?Internet says that there was some drama in the rpm world couple of years back regarding rhel/cent, so I am just having hard time finding good posts that don't mention it.
I Need Red Hat RHCSA exam discount code. I Need Red Hat RHCSA exam discount code.u/lazygenious007•3 mo. agoI Need Red Hat RHCSA exam discount code.I Need Red Hat RHCSA exam discount code.r/redhat•3 mo. agoI Need Red Hat RHCSA exam discount code.I'm about to take the exam in a couple of days. I'd appreciate it if anyone has a discount code. Thanks a lot.4comments
I Need Red Hat RHCSA exam discount code. I Need Red Hat RHCSA exam discount code.u/lazygenious007•3 mo. agoI Need Red Hat RHCSA exam discount code.I'm about to take the exam in a couple of days. I'd appreciate it if anyone has a discount code. Thanks a lot.
EX188 Exam EX188 Examu/Hosssa•3 mo. agoEX188 ExamI scheduled the exam a month from now any have advices or any tips with the studying and the exam ? Or if anyone have dumps i will really appreciate it
Resetting root password Resetting root passwordu/ElCaptnLive•3 mo. agoResetting root passwordI’m getting ready to take the RHCSA soon and I keep seeing conflicting information regarding how to reset the root password. Should I be using rd.break or unit=/bin/bash ? I would rather not fail my exam for doing the incorrect way? I’m taking the RHCSA 9.3.
Noob question :  set proxy configuration Noob question :  set proxy configurationu/DZAUKER•3 mo. agoNoob question :  set proxy configurationHello, have problems to configure the global proxy in our RHEL 9.6 box, an application installed is not reaching the proxy and cannot connect to a web portal.Here our config details (fake ones but similar)- proxy:emeaproxy.domain.biz- user: domain.biz\proxy-defined-account- user password : AAAaaabbbbbXXXX%012238   <= there's a special character here, the %We tested with:HTTP_PROXY="domain.biz%5Cproxy-defined-account:AAAaaabbbbbXXXX%25012238@emeaproxy.domain.biz:8080/"HTTPS_PROXY="domain.biz%5Cproxy-defined-account:AAAaaabbbbbXXXX%25012238@emeaproxy.domain.biz:8080/"No luck.Any suggestion ?Thank you.
Will there be ACL and LDAP related questions on the RHCSA 9.3 exam? Will there be ACL and LDAP related questions on the RHCSA 9.3 exam?u/Purple_Explorer7867•3 mo. agoWill there be ACL and LDAP related questions on the RHCSA 9.3 exam?I'm curious if the 9.3 version exam will include questions related to ACL settings and LDAP authentication.Is there anyone who recently took or passed the exam who can help me?
RHEL 10.1 & 9.7 Officially official RHEL 10.1 & 9.7 Officially officialu/No_Rhubarb_7222•3 mo. agoRHEL 10.1 & 9.7 Officially officialHey all,Just got the General Availability announcement for 10.1 and 9.7.In 2 hours (noon Eastern) our ownu/gangrifwill be doing a Product Update with all the new and updated changes in the product.https://www.youtube.com/live/nkLOpT4Azgg?si=sVTaXmPxATkqTOLEIf you miss the live stream, it’s recorded, and you can still watch it using the above URL.
How to install Red Hat Satellite 6.18 on RHEL 9 + Minimal Implementation How to install Red Hat Satellite 6.18 on RHEL 9 + Minimal Implementationu/waldirio•3 mo. agoHow to install Red Hat Satellite 6.18 on RHEL 9 + Minimal ImplementationHelloToday, I'm glad to share that a few days ago, Red Hat released Red Hat Satellite 6.18!!! \o/, and here, you can see a new video with the Installation + Minimal Implementation of it!https://youtu.be/7MFuBc2xVOsEnjoy it!Wally
Study materials Study materialsu/Intelligent_Meal8554•3 mo. agoStudy materialsWhat are you guys using to study for the rhcsa exam? I saw someone said kodekloud? Should i use that? I know Linux already but i need something to brush up my skills so I can take the test in January.
Using Ansible on Satellite Server Using Ansible on Satellite Serveru/_ZunDaDa•3 mo. agoUsing Ansible on Satellite ServerUsing Ansible on Satellite Serverr/ansible•3 mo. agoUsing Ansible on Satellite ServerWhat is the best practice when it comes to using Satellite's built-in Ansible integration?13upvotes·11comments
For those doing Image Mode, how are you Handling Entitlement for the Build. For those doing Image Mode, how are you Handling Entitlement for the Build.u/InfiniteSheepherder1•3 mo. agoFor those doing Image Mode, how are you Handling Entitlement for the Build.Our build servers run on CentOS Stream, when looking into this it seems at least per one blog post from RedHat they expect the build to possibly be happening on a RHEL server. I am pretty sure I could use Red Hat Developer Subscription for Teams to roll out a build server and not spend one of our actual licenses we pay for.I came across this,https://ryandaniels.ca/blog/rhel-subscription-entitlement-for-bootc-in-oci-image/It worked and worked for a bit then our builds started failing and for some reason the files aren't mounting into /run/secrets anymore which maybe is not ideal practice as it would mess with other podman secrets if we used them.We aren't doing anything production on image mode yet currently in testing and working on our Ansible Playbooks to deploy VMs based on an image in VMware.What is everyone else doing, or does anyone have documentation on this that I failed to find about how RedHat would like you to do this.
RHCSA 10 Passed on my first try RHCSA 10 Passed on my first tryu/SoftEgg5344•3 mo. agoRHCSA 10 Passed on my first tryThis is considered as a renewal of my expired RHCSA 7. My score is not great but passed 237/300. I knew there was one question that I dont know and never used it as a linux sysadmin but I'm surprised that I got a lower score on this exam compared to my previous RHCSA 7. I can say based on my experienced RHCSA 7 was easier than the latest 10 ex200. Anyway, thanks for the tips on this group and to the person who shared his exam discount code 15%, that was a great help to lessen the cost of this certification. Next step is to proceed for RHCE on which I didnt take seriously after passing my RHCSA7.
RHEL 9.7 and 10.1 are "available" RHEL 9.7 and 10.1 are "available"u/Fredouye•3 mo. agoRHEL 9.7 and 10.1 are "available"RPMS are offered when running a dnf update.
unable to install RHEL10 on Supermicro rack server unable to install RHEL10 on Supermicro rack serveru/vectorx25•3 mo. agounable to install RHEL10 on Supermicro rack serverHello all, wondering if anyone can give me a tip on this, Im installing RH10 on a supermicro AS -2025HS-TNR rack server that has 2 NVME ssdsIm mounting a virtual ISO with rhel-10.0-x86_64-dvd.isowhen I boot to the virtual CD and start the installer, the kernel always drops into emergency modeI upgraded bios firmware to latest but cant figure out why its failing (also tried RHEL9, but same result)
r/redhat Gave my First round Technical Interview at Redhat on 10 November 2025..what is the expected time to hear back whether i got rejected or selected? r/redhat Gave my First round Technical Interview at Redhat on 10 November 2025..what is the expected time to hear back whether i got rejected or selected?u/Extension-Ride-7568•3 mo. agor/redhat Gave my First round Technical Interview at Redhat on 10 November 2025..what is the expected time to hear back whether i got rejected or selected?
Where to begin? Rhcsa Where to begin? Rhcsau/Amekage08•3 mo. agoWhere to begin? RhcsaI’m currently in IT ops for the last 3 years. Work in a windows environment but for some reason rhcsa has been calling out to me. I have a laptop with rocky Linux installed and that’s about it. I’m super sorry if this is repetitive but where do I begin? I’m hoping to be ready to take the exam in 6-8 months.
Did Red Hat remove AAP from Developer Subscriptions? Did Red Hat remove AAP from Developer Subscriptions?u/belgarionx•3 mo. agoDid Red Hat remove AAP from Developer Subscriptions?Hi chat. I was setting up my new lab environment, and I couldn't get some images.TASK [ansible.containerized_installer.common : Pull the controlplane container images] **************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************ok: [hephaestus.lab.local] => (item=registry.redhat.io/ansible-automation-platform-26/receptor-rhel9:latest) FAILED - RETRYING: [hephaestus.lab.local]: Pull the controlplane container images (6 retries left). FAILED - RETRYING: [hephaestus.lab.local]: Pull the controlplane container images (5 retries left). FAILED - RETRYING: [hephaestus.lab.local]: Pull the controlplane container images (4 retries left). FAILED - RETRYING: [hephaestus.lab.local]: Pull the controlplane container images (3 retries left). FAILED - RETRYING: [hephaestus.lab.local]: Pull the controlplane container images (2 retries left). FAILED - RETRYING: [hephaestus.lab.local]: Pull the controlplane container images (1 retries left). failed: [hephaestus.lab.local] (item=registry.redhat.io/ansible-automation-platform-26/controller-rhel9:latest) => {"ansible_loop_var": "item", "attempts": 6, "changed": false, "item": "registry.redhat.io/ansible-automation-platform-26/controller-rhel9:latest", "msg": "Failed to pull image registry.redhat.io/ansible-automation-platform-26/controller-rhel9:latest"} ok: [hephaestus.lab.local] => (item=registry.redhat.io/ansible-automation-platform-26/gateway-rhel9:latest) ok: [hephaestus.lab.local] => (item=registry.redhat.io/rhel9/redis-6:latest) ok: [hephaestus.lab.local] => (item=registry.redhat.io/ansible-automation-platform-26/gateway-proxy-rhel9:latest) ok: [hephaestus.lab.local] => (item=registry.redhat.io/rhel9/postgresql-15:latest)After messing around for a bit, I don't think I can see AAP anywhere in my subscription. Last time I was setting up my lab, it definitely were included since I uploaded the manifest to AAP GUI.update:I completed the setup as offline installation, then in the UI when I logged in to my redhat account, it recognized both the 60 days trial I've signed up and the 16 devices developer subscription
Why does RHEL 'de-register' constantly? Why does RHEL 'de-register' constantly?u/Shard-of-night•3 mo. agoWhy does RHEL 'de-register' constantly?Hey there, anybody else with this problem? More often than I'd like, the web console points out "Your system is not reporting." Why is that? I always have to re-register for insights like an animal - that can't possibly be right.... :)
Linux command error Linux command erroru/Connect-Feature-491•3 mo. agoLinux command errorWhen trying to run whatis <command>, it prints out following:<command>: nothing appropriate.Why is that?
Any free resources to study RH124 and RH134? Any free resources to study RH124 and RH134?[deleted]•3 mo. agoAny free resources to study RH124 and RH134?Hi everyone, I’m currently starting to learn about Red Hat system administration. I’d like to study RH124 and RH134, but I can’t afford the official courses right now.Do you know any free resources (videos, labs, guides, or documentation) that could help me learn these topics on my own?I’d really appreciate any suggestions or tips from people who have already studied or passed these courses. Thanks in advance!
Is ansible-navigator mandatory in the RHCE (RHEL 9) exam? Is ansible-navigator mandatory in the RHCE (RHEL 9) exam?u/Beneficial-Study-675•3 mo. agoIs ansible-navigator mandatory in the RHCE (RHEL 9) exam?Hi everyone,I’m currently studying for theRHCE exam.The textbook I have is based onRHEL 8, but it seems the actual exam will be onRHEL 9.While preparing, I noticed that many examples or labs useansible-navigatorinstead of the regularansibleoransible-playbookcommands.So my question is:👉 During theRHCE exam (RHEL 9), is itrequired to useansible-navigator, or can we still use the regular commands?Thanks a lot for any clarification!
RHCSA exam RHCSA examu/Salty_Nothing_5609•3 mo. agoRHCSA examhello everyone , im actually practicing course at kodekloud only it is really usefull but i feel like i am missing somethings in each section and the lab related to it ,anyway i want to pass the exam without the rh124 official course is it possible?i didnt find other ressources for it just the rh124-8 version ...where can i found mock exams other than kodekloud?is there rh124-9 pdf?is it enough to pass the exam only relaying on kodekloud's labs and course only?
Fresher from BSc (Computer Science, Electronics, mathematics) trying to get into Linux Admin or DevOps am I being crazy? Fresher from BSc (Computer Science, Electronics, mathematics) trying to get into Linux Admin or DevOps am I being crazy?u/Neat_Golf5031•3 mo. agoFresher from BSc (Computer Science, Electronics, mathematics) trying to get into Linux Admin or DevOps am I being crazy?Hey everyone, I’m a 2025 BSc graduate in Computer Science and Electronics. I can’t afford a master’s degree, so I decided to teach myself Linux and DevOps.Right now, I’m learning Linux administration (preparing for RHCSA EX200) through a Udemy course and Red Hat’s 90-day trial subscription. I’m doing home labs, documenting everything, and trying to stay consistent.I’ve been applying to jobs too   even BPO or non-tech roles   just to earn enough to eventually pay for the RHCSA exam. But no luck. Some companies take 5–6 rounds for “trainee” or “purchase assistant” roles, and it ends with the usual “we’ll get back to you.”Financially, things are tight at home, so I want to make this work on my own without depending too much on my family. My goal is to get into a Linux admin or DevOps-related role, even as a trainee.So my question is   is this realistic? Has anyone here actually broken into Linux Admin or DevOps as a fresher with self-study? What path should I focus on to make myself employable   specific skills, labs, small projects?Any guidance or personal stories would mean a lot.
DISA STIG and /tmp DISA STIG and /tmpu/CrabaThabaDaba•3 mo. agoDISA STIG and /tmpWe're trying to implement DISA STIGs on RHEL8 and RHEL9. The one on /tmp being mounted with noexec,nosuid,... is really bugging me. Currently we're using the tmp.mount service to manage /tmp, as we find it more canonical than using an entry in tmpfs in fstab. The tmp.mount service can be customized to include the required mount options, but the STIG is specific about finding the mount option in /etc/fstab.Has anyone experienced whether using a STIG-hardened tmp.mount meets the spirit of the STIG in a real audit situation?
redhat chapter 12s09 software-review redhat chapter 12s09 software-reviewu/Superb-Albatross602•3 mo. agoredhat chapter 12s09 software-reviewI am working on this lab and I keep getting this error:any help would be awesome
EX188K and RHCE Question EX188K and RHCE Questionu/MentalSewage•3 mo. agoEX188K and RHCE QuestionMy RHCE expires on Jan 2, and last time I waited down to the wire to schedule my exam I found there were no open slots at my testing center available to schedule the exam before my learning subscription expired.  I lucked out and they gave me an extension on the exam expiration.While I'm waiting on my test purchase to go through, it wont let me check the exam schedule but I was wondering if anybody could confirm my understanding is correct.  That is, if I do not pass the ex188k before Jan 2, my RHCE will expire and passing the ex188k will *not* bring it back to active?  Or to put it another way, if I can't get the test scheduled until Jan 5 for example, will me passing the ex188k still renew my RHCE or will I regardless then have to retake the RHCE exam after that date?I'm just nervous, the RHCSA was a monumental study for me and the RHCE was absolutely no joke despite me at the time being very well versed in Ansible.  This caused me to drag my feet continually studying for the ex188k even though I'm told it's not a difficult exam and the objectives are quite up my alley.
Are RH Certifications Region Locked Are RH Certifications Region Lockedu/belgarionx•3 mo. agoAre RH Certifications Region LockedHi chat,For months now I was unable to get RHCE voucher. I think they moved Turkey from $ to € and there's a conflict. I've contacted Red Hat and they just said they stopped selling it, I should get it from a vendor.Here's the thing. Vendors sell it for almost 2x price.Can I create a new account in say, Greece; pay it (it's still more expensive from Turkey so shouldn't be a problem), enter remotely and transfer the certificate to my own account?I've asked multiple red hatters this without any solid answers so it isn't an option.I must say Red Hat weren't helpful at all. I still need it for personal career goals, but we were even using Red Hat certifications for company wide promotions. The experience soured us so much that we are moving our 1500 RHEL VMs + Satellite + AAP to Alma/Rocky + Foreman + AWX.
Cleared EX188, now aiming EX288 Cleared EX188, now aiming EX288u/OkPiezoelectricity74•3 mo. agoCleared EX188, now aiming EX288Hi AllI have recently cleared EX188 exam and I am now aiming EX288.. I initially wanted to go for EX280 because I have more admin side experience on RHOCP but still somehow I convinced myself that I should go for EX288 first and then go for EX280.I have access to RHLS , I have already completed the DO288 course around 50 percent, I know that doing it for 1 time might not be enough, I should repeat its lab multiple times.Apart from that what other resources I can refer to make my preparation stronger..I have read reviews about EX288 exam that it is very tough exam to clear. Evaluation system gives 0 on tasks even if you make slight mistakes. .. how true is that ?I am worried about it now .. want to work more on my confidence related to the examAre there any good resources which I should go through or RHLS is enough if I repeat its lab multiple times
RHEL 10, VM Workstation PRO, Mount RHEL 10, VM Workstation PRO, Mountu/Witty_Discipline5502•3 mo. agoRHEL 10, VM Workstation PRO, MountSo, I am sure the answer is right in my face and I just dont see it.RHEL 10, running on Workstation PRO on Server 2025, shared folder added to the VM under the settings. I can manually mount it no problem. All the VM ware toolkits installed on RHEL 10 that i know ofWhen I try to do the FSTAB entry, no matter what line I use, the system enters emergency mode on reboot. I even followed the official VM guide for doing it. Below is FSTAB entry. I commented out the line that is causing the issue obviously# /etc/fstab# Created by anaconda on Thu Nov  6 15:22:58 2025## Accessible filesystems, by reference, are maintained under '/dev/disk/'.# See man pages fstab(5), findfs(8), mount(8) and/or blkid(8) for more info.## After editing this file, run 'systemctl daemon-reload' to update systemd# units generated from this file.#UUID=52f61025-c312-4367-996d-0b1d4b4fce7c /                       xfs     defaults        0 0UUID=7a51fc89-ae8e-4a5f-8404-0f7a8c7fb204 /boot                   xfs     defaults        0 0UUID=D4AA-E20E          /boot/efi               vfat    umask=0077,shortname=winnt 0 2UUID=e4e41986-9b42-406d-8b76-e01fadb6e627 /home                   xfs     defaults        0 0UUID=93a00e28-3e5c-489a-8217-9148a1f6d02a none                    swap    defaults        0 0#.host:/ /mnt/hgfs/ fuse.vmhgfs-fuse defaults 0 0
ubi images lacking c-ares libraries ubi images lacking c-ares librariesu/StudentLeading8379•3 mo. agoubi images lacking c-ares librariesHello everyone,I find this the easiest way to contact RedHat so sorry if it's offtopic:)ubi 9 used to lack c-ares library. Even though it is relatively important for opentelemetry projects. I had my hopes to see it in ubi10 as an update to ubi9. But now we have ubi10 and it still lacks c-ares.A good example of a project "struggling" is nginx kubernetes ingress (https://github.com/nginx/kubernetes-ingress/actions/workflows/build-ubi-dependency.yml) who has to build c-ares to provide telemetry support.Any chance we can get c-ares into ubi repositories? It would make things easier for quite a few projects, I suppose.
ansible-navigator nightmare - failed 5/300 score for RHCE V9. ansible-navigator nightmare - failed 5/300 score for RHCE V9.u/SnooStories1237•3 mo. agoansible-navigator nightmare - failed 5/300 score for RHCE V9.So just wanted to share my experience really quick. on the 15th this month my RHCSA would expire so I took 3 months off to prepare for the exam after starting in January my studies. I asked the Red hat support if RHCE v8 was still available (even though when I scheduled it it said it was) as my resource was based on it. they said only the V9 was available to schedule for it.I personally hate navigator, and from my read in the group you only needed to install it.... yeah and turns out navigator based on containers. I knew it was and well Trying to respect NDA, I'll just say before going into the test learn pod-man inside and out and how to troubleshoot when thing ain't working, far more then what I assumed. since it well known the exam is completely offline, so you guess it - ya gonna need to learn where to point your containers will pull images from offline servers, which isn't as easy as simply using podman login. I even had to double-check with the proctor if the environment was setup correctly and it was a me problem.edit: sorry, what I tried to convey it didn't even install correctly.that alone made the exam overly complicated then needed, but aside from that, I was confident of the other tasks.  i'll never know what I actually scored but I did spot some of my weak spots that I need to brush up, if not actually passed the 1st time barring this.as of right now I'm trying to setup a offline server to host containers to see how I could've avoided that mistake. but may take a while. I'd would encourage other to do the same as well. maybe in V10 I may not be needed, or maybe go the way of stratis in the RHCSA objective. but for now that my best advise.
Redhat exam vouchers in iraq Redhat exam vouchers in iraqu/o9nso•3 mo. agoRedhat exam vouchers in iraqHi, i tried to buy RHCSA EXAM VOUCHER from the official redhat website but its not available in my country "iraq" and in "global knowledge" the payment is blocked Any way? Thank you.
Am I ready for the RHCSA exam? Am I ready for the RHCSA exam?u/Mysterious-Ad449•3 mo. agoAm I ready for the RHCSA exam?Hey everyone,I wanted to ask if it’s enough to study only with the two official Red Hat courses and their related labs and reviews to pass the RHCSA exam. I’ve only used those two courses because my employer provided me with a Red Hat Learning Subscription (RHLS), and I haven’t used any external resources.Is that enough to pass? My exam is scheduled for Friday, and I’m still unsure if I should take it or postpone it.A few more questions:•	Am I allowed to use nmtui during the exam? •	Can I use Cockpit for the tasks? •	Has anyone experienced running out of all their 400 lab hours? Is there any way to extend them, or is Red Hat really strict about that?For context, I received my RHLS from my employer, but it was previously assigned to another employee, so around 80 hours had already been used when I got it.Thanks in advance for your help and advice!
Dynamic Inventory Made Easy: Using Red Hat Satellite with Ansible (AAP) for IT Automation Dynamic Inventory Made Easy: Using Red Hat Satellite with Ansible (AAP) for IT Automationu/waldirio•3 mo. agoDynamic Inventory Made Easy: Using Red Hat Satellite with Ansible (AAP) for IT AutomationHelloToday, let's learn how to setup Dynamic Inventory on Ansible Automation Platform (AAP), using Red Hat Satellite as source!https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JLdoBlQXhKoEnjoy it!Wally
Specialist Adoption Architect - Ansible Specialist Adoption Architect - Ansibleu/NiftyMist•3 mo. agoSpecialist Adoption Architect - AnsibleSo I've applied to an opening for Specialist Adoption Architect for Ansible.  I'm looking to make a career move and this seriously sounds like it is right up my alley.  I've been a serious Ansible user now for over 9 years and have been running AWX for my company's deployments and fleet management for the last 5 years.  I love the products and want to help Red Hat customers adopt these products (AAP obviously).  I already spend the majority of my days trying to convince people to use Ansible and AWX across several internal teams.  And its a real passion of mine to help my internal users troubleshoot jobs and manage their inventories.I'd love to hear anything about the position from someone with knowledge about the position or first hand experience doing to it.  What is the training like?  What is the day to day like?  And how much travel is required?I'm also curious about how long it takes to hear anything from the Talent Acquisition team to either tell me they are not interested or set up an initial phone screen.  Its been 3 weeks since I initially applied and I've moved from "In Review" to "In Progress" in the applicant portal.Much thanks to any comments or thoughts.
Value of RH certifications Value of RH certificationsu/TopicWinter6847•3 mo. agoValue of RH certificationsI spent the last few years accumulating Red Hat certs and just got my Red Hat Certified Architect certification recently. After my current company mandated RTO and denied a pay raise I decided to try my luck on the job market. I only applied to a handful of places and got a job offer within a couple months for 20% more than what i am being paid currently.Another hiring manager pretty much said he invited me for an interview because the amount of Red Hat certs i have is ‘impressive’.So for those saying certs don’t increase your salary they probably won’t at your current place but they will definitely help get your foot in the door at somewhere new.
Advice on MFA integration in a hybrid IDM environment (Rhel IDM manages several Linux servers) + Windows Servers. Advice on MFA integration in a hybrid IDM environment (Rhel IDM manages several Linux servers) + Windows Servers.u/Far-Horse4858•3 mo. agoAdvice on MFA integration in a hybrid IDM environment (Rhel IDM manages several Linux servers) + Windows Servers.Hello everyone, I'm going in circles trying to get OTP MFA to work when Active Directory users log in to servers managed by IDM. But nothing's happening; all the trust relationships are already established. Has anyone implemented this solution before? Please help me with my quest. I need advice on how to overcome this hurdle. Any help would be greatly appreciated.NB: I'm working in a VMware lab. (Please prioritize free solutions first.)
openscap profile RHEL 10 openscap profile RHEL 10u/Happy_Nose_6908•3 mo. agoopenscap profile RHEL 10Hello!I was wondering if open-scap (ssg-rhel10-ds.xml) is available? I can't find it. Thank you!
Question about exam scheduling Question about exam schedulingu/Pure_Inevitable_2362•3 mo. agoQuestion about exam schedulingHello everyone, I recently won a discount voucher valid until december and I would like to use this discount before it expires, but I am not sure when I will be able to take this exam. After purchasing the voucher, until when will I have to schedule my exam? is there any time limit to use that voucher? and second question is, If the voucher is valid for 1 year only for example, will I have to schedule the exam within that 1 year as well?thx in advance \o/
Need suggestion !!! Need suggestion !!!u/Beautiful-Airport690•3 mo. agoNeed suggestion !!!RHCSA done. What next RHCE or EX280(open-shift administration). Or both???
Issue creating a RHEL AARCH64 installation on Oracle Cloud Infraestructure Issue creating a RHEL AARCH64 installation on Oracle Cloud Infraestructureu/theMarcPower•3 mo. agoIssue creating a RHEL AARCH64 installation on Oracle Cloud InfraestructureHello! I've wanted for a few days to create a RHEL instance on my Oracle Cloud Infraestructure compartment. I've also wanted to take profit of the 'Ampere' type instances that let me get a decent ARM64 CPU core for my machine.After getting the RHEL free license and downloading the RHEL 9 KVM Guest image for AARCH64 and getting it stored in a cube for creating a custom image with it (QCOW2 format, and paravirtualization selected), I've started to create the instance. Got succesfully my RHEL 9 KVM Guest QCOW2 image to show whilst designing my instance, and wanted to give it a go with the default connection settings (and getting fresh SSH keys from the Oracle instance setup page).After getting the instance created, trying to sign to it via SSH provides no result, the SSH daemon just "stays there" till finally displaying 'Connection timed out'. Pinging that same public IP address gives me no result, too.Creating a fresh Alma Linux instance with the same settings works out of the box. Could anyone help me point out where the issue is? Thanks!
Discount needed Discount neededu/Man_Gabby•3 mo. agoDiscount neededHello Team, I am in need of a discount voucher to write the ex280 exams please share any with me which will greatly help me out. Thanks.
Red Hat Subscription Credentials Red Hat Subscription Credentialsu/CyberMarine1997•3 mo. agoRed Hat Subscription CredentialsHello all.  A Google search might answer this but I have the feeling that it would take an hour to sift the results.When registering a system using RHSM, are the login credentials stored anywhere?  If not, how does the system know that the subscription is valid (e.g. for system updates)?  TIA.
Redhat S2I openjdk25 availability? Redhat S2I openjdk25 availability?u/LegitimateEntrance72•3 mo. agoRedhat S2I openjdk25 availability?Does anybody know when RedHat S2I image with JDK25 will be available?
Image builder in air-gap question! Image builder in air-gap question!u/Zealousideal_Bag3588•3 mo. agoImage builder in air-gap question!I'm more than likely missing something simple but for the life of me I cant get my sources to override and use my organization's satellite server. Does anyone have any gotcha?Running on rhel 9.6 , and primarily using composer-cli. I've created baseOS and AppStream sources to my satellite and also created a rhel-96.json pointing to my rhsm. All result in failure where its trying to reach out to redhat can.Any help is greatly appreciated.
Recently went for a job interview linux almost got hired. Recently went for a job interview linux almost got hired.[deleted]•3 mo. agoRecently went for a job interview linux almost got hired.Basically I went for the interview and got 3 rounds cleared YAY! for me , had to reject the offer due to time conflicts and working hours, the last round manager was chill and we had a bit of conversation. He suggest me to go for Red hat certificate, So I can get more noticed and will get a significant bump in pay too, had to cut the conversation short and run home.As I'm searching for the cert to do I'm not sure which one should I get, I have 2.8 years worth of experience in linux but on debian based and while im interested in red hat, Im not sure which one to go for.I want as much as suggestion so I can make a decision.
When I'm eligible for a Linux system administration role? When I'm eligible for a Linux system administration role?u/CorrectLawfulness435•3 mo. agoWhen I'm eligible for a Linux system administration role?Hi, I'm a 19 year old boy looking for a linux system administration role.I've finished my training of RHCSA from an E-Learning platform in the December of 2024 and I've been using Ubuntu since then.I've learned Python and Bash as well. Also I've wrote a bash script to manage users, because I was told by a senior thatUser managementis a core part of Admin job.I got good understanding of partitioning, cron jobs etc. even I'm going to complete LFS book by the end of this week. The only aspect of administration I lack in is Ansible and configuring services like vsftpd, samba, etc. I'm going to learn Ansible by the end of this year, and I'm also going to host a LAMP stack on AWS so that I can learn and practice service configuration.The questions is thathow am I supposed to know that I'm fully prepared to land a Linux system admin job?The reason this took me so long is that in between June and august I got attracted towards cyber security, especially offensive security. But I do understand now, that security is part of every job, its just a matter of taking it serious.Sorry for my bad English!
Looking for Groups in Orlando & Cocoa Beach Looking for Groups in Orlando & Cocoa Beachu/Federal_Plantain_184•3 mo. agoLooking for Groups in Orlando & Cocoa BeachHello, I'm looking for RHEL groups in central Florida region. I'm new to RHEL & Linux, but have been in IT for over 10+ years. I'm looking for some help when it comes to preparing for the ex200 in March 2026 and would appreciate some input - Currently I'm a Jr. Linux Admin. Thank you.
How to get hired by Redhat ? How to get hired by Redhat ?u/Mission-Strategy-995•3 mo. agoHow to get hired by Redhat ?So, I've been working as Software Engineer in a consulting firm, but ever since my college days I've been really wanting to get into Redhat. Have 1.5 YOE as a full-time engineer, worked on core backend with different technologies, even keep myself updated with latest core AI Technologies. Have experience in contributing to opensource projects, even now I do so, been a Google Summer of Code Mentor, actively have quite visible GitHub profile but whenever I submit my resume & portfolio by modifying it accordingly to the job description but it still gets rejected. I don't know what more to do. Maybe my luck ain't favoring. Texted the recruiters, even dmd redhat directly via twt. Maybe they've blacklisted me ...So just a query for anyone working at Redhat, can you just refer me so atleast I get till OA round ?
Audio issues running RHEL 10 on Lenovo ThinkPad P14s Audio issues running RHEL 10 on Lenovo ThinkPad P14su/uraaga•3 mo. agoAudio issues running RHEL 10 on Lenovo ThinkPad P14sHi All,I’m having issues getting audio on RHEL 10. I have Lenovo ThinkPad P14s. See spec below for details.Anyone had this issue and how you got audio working in RHEL? TIAFYI, audio worked great when running RHEL 9.6.Spec Info:Processor: 1x Intel® Core™ Ultra 7 155H Processor(Core™ Ultra 7 155H)Audio Device: Intel Corporation Meteor Lake-P HD Audio Controller (rev 20) — (from lspci)aplay -l output: no sound cards found …Memory: 2x 32 GB DDR5-5600Operating System: RHEL 10 (it came with Windows 11 Pro)Hard Drive: 1x 1TB G4 PerfWired Network: 1xWireless Network: 1x Bluetooth® 5.1 (Windows 10) or Bluetooth® 5.3 (Windows 11); Intel® Wi-Fi 6E AX211 2x2 AX vPro®Ports: 1x 2 x USB 3.2 Type-A; Combo audio/microphone jack; HDMI 2.1; 2 x USB Type-C (USB4.0 TBT4 DP2.1); Kensington lock; 1 x RJ45Camera: 1x 5MP RGB+IR with Privacy Shutter and Dual MicrophoneGraphics: 1x NVIDIA RTX™ 500 Ada 4GBMonitor: 14.5" 3KForm Factor: Ultraslim NotebookEdit: I finally got it working using the help of SoF project on GitHub. Will put the details sometime soon.
Is this a valid use case of the RHEL subscription, or are we doing a bad? Is this a valid use case of the RHEL subscription, or are we doing a bad?u/Prior-Actuator-3024•4 mo. agoIs this a valid use case of the RHEL subscription, or are we doing a bad?Just recently joined this place, trying to clean things up.Scenario:We have about ~20 RHEL server, all but a couple running RHEL 8. We have a subscription for 50 Satellite servers, and one for Red Hat Enterprise Linux Server, Standard (Physical or Virtual Nodes).We have two servers set up with the Virtual Node subscription, and activated. They do a reposync to pull the repos and create a local mirror (a la7019225).  Those twenty other servers then just use them to update from. Despite having the satellite subscriptions, they do NOT have anything activated on them in subscription manager. Based on what I can tell, the reason is twofold:A) They used to have satellite infrastructure, but they had no real linux guys so it all fell apart and they stopped using itB) All of the systems are airgapped save for their access to the repo servers.There's a whole lot of weirdness here, but this is the biggest of the lot, and something i've never seen. My understanding of the license agreement is that as long as you have the licenses to cover the servers, whether or not they're activated, it doesn't matter. But I want to be safe over sorry.
Software Engineer on a Budget: How do I build a Red Team portfolio when certifications are too expensive? (Stuck after 2 months) Software Engineer on a Budget: How do I build a Red Team portfolio when certifications are too expensive? (Stuck after 2 months)u/Flaky_Counter_1683•4 mo. agoSoftware Engineer on a Budget: How do I build a Red Team portfolio when certifications are too expensive? (Stuck after 2 months)I'm currently a Software Engineer with 2 months of dedicated self-study in offensive security. My ultimate goal is to transition into Red Teaming, but I'm facing two major challenges:The Budget Barrier:My salary is currently low, making the typical recommended path of expensive certifications (like OSCP or advanced courses) financially prohibitive right now. I need an effective, affordable path.The Roadmap Block:I feel overwhelmed by general advice and need specific, actionable steps tailored for someone whocan'tafford big courses and needs to rely on free resources.Given my background and constraints, I would be extremely grateful for any high-level advice from experienced Red Teamers or penetration testers:My Core Questions:Free Skills over Certs:Beyond basic exploitation (Linux, web), what are thenon-negotiable, free-to-learn technical areasthat genuinely make a candidate Red Team ready? (e.g., specific Active Directory labs, stealth techniques, reverse engineering fundamentals).Portfolio Projects:What kind oflow-cost projects or write-ups(e.g., VulnHub/HTB/TryHackMe write-ups, custom tooling) actually impress hiring managers when a candidate lacks paid certs?Thank you for helping someone get off the starting line without breaking the bank!
RHCSA Preparation RHCSA Preparationu/nature_boy_123•4 mo. agoRHCSA PreparationI am planning on taking the RHCSA in mid 2026. I can create a small homelab, but would like to have access to a platform where I can take practice exams in a sandboxed environment. I've read that KodeKloud has good platform to prepare for the RHCSA (ie. courses, practice exams, and sandboxes). Can anyone here confirm that? Also, if there is another recommended platform, please let me know.
RHCSA Prep RHCSA Prepu/HyperNoms•4 mo. agoRHCSA PrepI studied all the content that will be in the exam and tried to optimize my time on answers but my worst fear is the environment unfamiliarity that would consume valuable time in the exam what is the best options to deal with such problem and how did you deal with it ?
Crc installation issues Crc installation issuesu/EntertainerFar3535•4 mo. agoCrc installation issuesHi, I am currently facing some issues installing CRC on a RHEL 9 VMMy VM with 6 cpus and 16GB of RAMI am running the CRC setup with 12GB memory and when it gets to the portion where it has to write the pull secret to the disk it ends up failing.I also extended my root file system to 116GB to make room for the installation.Kindly note i have libvert and NetworkManager enabled and running on the VMI also noticed that the CRC ip is the localhost i.e. 127.0.0.1 and i am unable to ssh to the VM using the public key in the cd ".crc/machines/crc/" path.
MFA Integration Tips for AD_users MFA Integration Tips for AD_usersu/Far-Horse4858•4 mo. agoMFA Integration Tips for AD_usersIs there a way to customize an AD user's MFA so that they can use the IDM OTP??? And also the ipa idoverride... does it allow you to create a user shadow so that you can add the MFA in IDM? I use RHEL version 9.4Please give your opinions because I want to use the combiner if possible to generate the qr code in the terminal. the generation script is ready.
RHCSA Exam RHCSA Examu/HyperNoms•4 mo. agoRHCSA ExamGuys is there any exam discount vouchers available and where to find them ?
Logrotate Tutorial: How to Manage Logs in Linux with Ease Logrotate Tutorial: How to Manage Logs in Linux with Easeu/waldirio•4 mo. agoLogrotate Tutorial: How to Manage Logs in Linux with EaseHelloLet's learn a bit more about logrotate, understand how this amazing feature works under the hood.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oleUumqJtGoEnjoy it!Wally
RHEL 9, image-builder blueprint with openscap for vsphere ova RHEL 9, image-builder blueprint with openscap for vsphere ovau/Sterling2600•4 mo. agoRHEL 9, image-builder blueprint with openscap for vsphere ovaI've been working with image-builder, oscap. I've been successful in creating a blueprint that lets me build a rhel 9 ova. I implemented the openscap cis profile on the blueprint and it came back with a 99.8% score. Two controls to deal with. one was not remediated on purpose, the other was a password requirement for root. Unfortunately I need to modify the banners in /etc/issue,issue.net, and motd. I tried using [[customizations.files]] to replace all three files with my custom banner. It changes the motd, but not the others. I suspect openscap is overwriting my custom files. I tried using [customizations.openscap.tailoring] and unselecting the three rules for the banners. That sort of worked. My custom file changed the motd, but it didn't do anything with issue or issue.net. I checked the tailoring file it created and it only had the motd rule. I triple checked the rules for typos and such and that was all good. Maybe a bug? I don't know. So cleaned up the tailoring and tried leveraging first-boot by creating a oneshot service that runs an ansible playbook, which worked. Then I ran an eval after and my openscap score dropped to 61%. Openscap didn't implement around 60 or so controls.My goal is to simply replace the banners with my custom banners. If you have time I'd appreciate any guidance. For context here is my current blueprint:name = "rhel9_cisl2_base_image" description = "CIS Server Level 2 - Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9 Base Image" version = "2.0.0"  [[groups]] name = "core"  [[packages]] name = "libpwquality"  [[packages]] name = "systemd-journal-remote"  [[packages]] name = "nftables"  [[packages]] name = "libselinux"  [[packages]] name = "chrony"  [[packages]] name = "audit-libs"  [[packages]] name = "open-vm-tools"  [[packages]] name = "yum-utils"  [[packages]] name = "ansible-core"  [customizations] hostname = "rhel9cisl2base" partitioning_mode = "auto-lvm"  [[customizations.user]] name = "ansible_svc" description = "Service account for Ansible" password = "password123" # This is a plain text dummy password for testing. Production will be encrypted. key = "key goes here"  home = "/home/ansible_svc" shell = "/usr/bin/bash" groups = ["wheel"] uid = 1200  [[customizations.user]] name = "root" password = "password123" # This is a plain text dummy password for testing. Production will be encrypted.  [customizations.kernel] append = "audit_backlog_limit=8192 audit=1"  [customizations.services] enabled = ["auditd","crond","firewalld","systemd-journald","custom-first-boot"] disabled = [] masked = ["cups","nfs-server","rpcbind","avahi-daemon","autofs","bluetooth","nftables"]  [customizations.timezone] timezone = "America/Toronto"  [customizations.locale] languages = ["en_US.UTF-8"] keyboard = "us"  [customizations.firewall] ports = ["22:tcp"]  [customizations.firewall.services] enabled = ["ssh"] disabled = ["cockpit","dhcpv6-client"]  [[customizations.filesystem]] mountpoint = "/home" size = "10 GiB"  [[customizations.filesystem]] mountpoint = "/tmp" size = "10 GiB"  [[customizations.filesystem]] mountpoint = "/var" size = "30 GiB"  [[customizations.filesystem]] mountpoint = "/var/tmp" size = "10 GiB"  [[customizations.filesystem]] mountpoint = "/var/log" size = "10 GiB"  [[customizations.filesystem]] mountpoint = "/var/log/audit" size = "10 GiB"  [[customizations.filesystem]] mountpoint = "/" size = "3 GiB"  [customizations.openscap] datastream = "/usr/share/xml/scap/ssg/content/ssg-rhel9-ds.xml" profile_id = "xccdf_org.ssgproject.content_profile_cis"  [[customizations.files]] path = "/usr/local/sbin/custom-first-boot" mode = "0774" data = """ #!/usr/bin/ansible-playbook -i localhost  - name: Update Banners   hosts: localhost   tasks:      - name: Set custom banner content       ansible.builtin.copy:         dest: "{{ item }}"         content: |           Corporate banner goes here.         mode: '0644'       loop:         - /etc/issue         - /etc/issue.net         - /etc/motd """  [[customizations.files]] path = "/etc/systemd/system/custom-first-boot.service" data = """ [Unit] ConditionPathExists=/usr/local/sbin/custom-first-boot Wants=network-online.target After=network-online.target After=osbuild-first-boot.service  [Service] Type=oneshot ExecStart=/usr/local/sbin/custom-first-boot ExecStartPost=mv /usr/local/sbin/custom-first-boot /usr/local/sbin/custom-first-boot-done  [Install] WantedBy=multi-user.target """
RHCE and RHEL 10 RHCE and RHEL 10u/Tonybe123•4 mo. agoRHCE and RHEL 10Hi! Any news on if/when the RHCE will be based on RHEL 10? I'm curious to see if there will be any changes to the objectives when they go to RHEL 10.
RH415 usbguard task - Something is OFF RH415 usbguard task - Something is OFFu/Minute-Lawfulness910•4 mo. agoRH415 usbguard task - Something is OFFOBJECTIVE: SCOREUse Red Hat Ansible® Engine: 100%Configure intrusion detection: 0%Configure encrypted storage: 100%Restrict USB devices: 0%Manage system login security using pluggable authentication modules (PAMs): 50%Configure system auditing: 33%Configure SELinux: 67%Enforce security compliance: 80%Manage security on Controller: 100%Hey guys!I passed EX415 with a couple of mistakes that i'm aware ofThe thing is, for usbguard i know it for a fact that everything is working across reboot and got this mark.i checked the internet to see other candidates and found that literally most of people who pass this exam go with 0% on usbguard despite being sure that they execute what needs to be done.It's weird. Also i'm not happy with redhat materials, they are 10 times easier than exam. If you are planning to prepare us for an exam, then provide good resources ;)What do you think guys, anyone succeeded this magical 0% usbguard? i'm aware of no disclosure, i'm just curious about this task
Anybody going to AWS re:Invent '25? Let's Meet up Anybody going to AWS re:Invent '25? Let's Meet upu/boilerup4nc•4 mo. agoAnybody going to AWS re:Invent '25? Let's Meet upAnybody going to AWS re:Invent '25? Let's Meet upr/IBM•4 mo. agoAnybody going to AWS re:Invent '25? Let's Meet upAs an excited attendee myself, I'm happy to share with the community thatIBMis returning to AWS re:Invent 2025 as a Platinum Sponsor!  I'd love to meet up with you - feel free to DM or reach-out onLinkedIn.  Come by theIBM booth(#539) for product demos and IBM Lightning Talks. These quick 15 min sessions will focus on agentic AI, automation, data and governance or feel free to join us at our numerousbreakout sessionsandlightningtalks.  Checkout other booths in our neighborhood:Apptio,HashiCorpandRedHat.Discover how IBM’sObservability solutionshelp organizations manage dynamic, cloud-native environments on AWS with precision and control. IBMInstana’sreal-time, automated observability enables rapid troubleshooting and performance optimization for AI and traditional workloads.  Save on network costs withInstana’s latest PrivateLink support.  For users of EKS, EC2, S3, RDS and much, much, more - come join us at the booth for a lively discussion on your wants and needs.Determining the exact resources your applications need to deliver peak performance at the lowest cost is a complex challenge.  IBMTurbonomicis helping clients optimize performance and cost efficiency on cloud native AWS services, like EBS, EKS, EC2, RDS and more, by automating elasticity.   Or simply use Turbonomic 'parking' actions for cloud resources. User-initiated actions tostartandstopyour cloud resources for a given period of time to help you reduce your cloud expenses.Build, deploy, and run Java applications on AWS with ease.  Coming to AWS on 14 November 2025.IBM Enterprise Application Service for Java(EASeJ), is a fully managed application platform, for Enterprises moving applications to the cloud who want to run smarter, accelerate development, and modernize confidently.Bridge between Amazon Route 53 and IBM NS1 ConnectusingIBM Cloud Sync.  Automate bi-directional DNS synchronization across clouds — no manual scripts, no XFR limits.Efficiently manage KafkawithIBM webMethods Hybrid Integration.  Organizations that run hybrid workloads with events distributed across AWS services like Amazon MSK and their on-premises data centers can benefit from a centralized approach to event management.Sessions and Lightning ⚡ Talks[breakout] Power multi-agent AI systems that truly transform enterprise workflows (API102-S)Explore how organizations are overcoming integration challenges to build trusted AI agents.Tuesday, Dec 211:30 AM - 12:30 PM PSTCaesars Forum | Level 1 | Summit 212 | Content Hub | Turquoise Theater---⚡ Balance performance and cost on AWS with intelligent optimization (AIM235-S)Ensure applications get what they need to perform across Kubernetes clusters and AWS services.Tuesday, Dec 211:30 AM - 11:50 AM PSTVenetian | Level 2 | Hall B | Expo | Theater 5---⚡ Drive trusted AI outcomes with governance and accurate data (AIM234-S)Learn how to power accurate and trusted agents at scale with AI-ready data and governance.Tuesday, Dec 21:30 PM - 1:50 PM PSTVenetian | Level 2 | Hall B | Expo | Theater 5---[breakout] Scaling AI: Prepare your enterprise for agents with AI-driven automation​ (HMC104-S)Build resilient, scalable foundations for AI agents and overcome integration & usability challenges.Tuesday, Dec 24:00 PM - 5:00 PM PSTCaesars Forum | Level 1 | Summit 212 | Content Hub | Pink Theater---⚡ Build, manage and govern AI agents from one place (API205-S)Orchestrate multi-agent systems that work across AI platforms and automate complex workflows.Wednesday, Dec 312:00 PM - 12:20 PM PSTVenetian | Level 2 | Hall B | Expo | Theater 5---⚡ Southwest Gas: Agentic AI readiness with SAP (sponsored by IBM) (HMC205-S)How Southwest Gas is laying the foundation for agentic AI using Amazon Bedrock & AWS services.Wednesday, Dec 31:30 PM - 1:50 PM PSTVenetian | Level 2 | Hall B | Expo | Theater 5---[breakout] Scaling GenAI on AWS Without Breaking the Bank through FinOps (AIM227-S)Generative AI workloads on AWS can be powerful but often come with high and unpredictable costs. This session explores four GenAI deployment modes, key AWS services, and practical FinOps strategies to optimize GPU usage, forecast expenses, and ensure financial sustainability.Wednesday, Dec 34:00 PM - 5:00 PM PSTMandalay Bay | Level 2 South | Oceanside B---Did you know?IBM has25+AWS SaaS offerings and75+softwareofferings on the AWS Marketplace.   For the more technical minded, check out our dedicatedIBM+RedHat AWS Blogfor a great series of detailed posts on how our software can help you achieve your AWS solution goals.I look forward to meeting new friends and wish all AWS re:Invite attendees safe travels.  Feel free to DM if you have any specific inquiries or needs around IBM offerings and I'll be happy to facilitate some face-to-face meetings with my colleagues and SMEs in attendance.2upvotes·7comments
UK & US Pricing - RHCSA UK & US Pricing - RHCSAu/jamieelston•4 mo. agoUK & US Pricing - RHCSAWas about to book my exam, RHCSA, but noticed that the UK price is £500 and the US price is $500. Based on exchange rates the UK price is a lot more which I though was a little odd and they would be based around a fixed amount. Are there ways to buy the exam at a fair price outside the US? has anyone found a hack around this? Assuming I cant pay for voucher in dollars and use it in the UK.Im actually going to New York for a week in December so could I even do the exam while im out there? or does the exam need to reflect your living location.Its no massive deal, but if I can save £80 then I might as well.
¿Alguien quiere preparar el examen RHCSA desde cero hasta avanzado? Anyone interested in preparing for the RHCSA exam from zero to advanced? ¿Alguien quiere preparar el examen RHCSA desde cero hasta avanzado? Anyone interested in preparing for the RHCSA exam from zero to advanced?u/Fede79•4 mo. ago¿Alguien quiere preparar el examen RHCSA desde cero hasta avanzado? Anyone interested in preparing for the RHCSA exam from zero to advanced?Hola a todos,Soy usuario de GNU/Linux y estoy interesado en prepararme para la certificación Red Hat Certified System Administrator (RHCSA).Me atrae más que la LPIC, pero lo que me ha frenado hasta ahora es el costo del examen en mi país.Me gustaría encontrar personas que también quieran estudiar desde 0 hasta 100, compartir material, ejercicios y apoyarnos mutuamente para llegar bien preparados.¿Alguien más en la misma situación?Saludos desde Argentina 🇦🇷Hi everyone,I’m a GNU/Linux user and I’m interested in preparing for the Red Hat Certified System Administrator (RHCSA) exam.I find it more appealing than the LPIC path, but what’s been holding me back is mainly the cost of the certification where I live.I’d like to connect with people who also want to study from zero to 100, share resources, practice labs, and keep each other motivated until we’re ready to take the exam.Anyone else in the same situation?Greetings from Argentina 🇦🇷
RHEL laptop recommendations for study. RHEL laptop recommendations for study.u/TXFlank•4 mo. agoRHEL laptop recommendations for study.I have a family member I'm looking to get a laptop for starting to study RHEL for job opportunities. My question is, are there specific requirements I should keep in mind beyond the basic items? i.e. should I be looking at a minimum amount of RAM or a super big SSD or a built in videocard or a specific CPU? I know nothing about RHEL. Thanks in advance!
Local crc installation error Openshift Admin -- pls help :-( Local crc installation error Openshift Admin -- pls help :-(u/Pitiful-Text3593•4 mo. agoLocal crc installation error Openshift Admin -- pls help :-(Dear Redhat experts && AspirantsThis is Sid from Bengaluru back with an issue while instllation local crc in my laptoppls  help in resolving this issue  in openshift , screenshot shared# user# CRC Config view - FYR# After Running CRC setup .. now in CRC Start Mode - error @ last# CRC Start Working   ( kubeadmin + password mentioned in config view .. is dispalyed  but now connnecting to TLS cert )# error# CRC Status -- openshift  - unreachablePls help to recitify the issue .. i need to practice DO280  local lab from  using CRC ..ThnxSidBangalore
Passed RHCSA (EX-200) Passed RHCSA (EX-200)u/Electrical_Bit_2768•4 mo. agoPassed RHCSA (EX-200)Hey everyone, I passed my exam last week after studying everyday for the past 5 months. And I just want to say that I’ve had the most fun giving this exam more than any MCQ-based other certification exams.I’ve got the results few hours after giving the exam of which is 300/300 .I’ve learnt at from this sub during my preparation and thanks to all for that and I just want to say everyone that is preparing or wishing to take the exam is you can do it.
Study Path Study Pathu/The-amigo•4 mo. agoStudy PathHello All, I'm pretty sure this has already been asked but I would like to get this cert. Based on this examen, and to the people who have already passed it. What study material should I start with I'm a bit new to Linux. Can you please share your best study material path in order to achieve this certificate I want to learn Linux and understand it like I do to windows.
RH Documentation RH Documentationu/Axiom_of_Tron•4 mo. agoRH DocumentationHello all, Linux/Tech/RedHat supernoob here. Am I stupid or is the RH documentation hard to navigate? I was alerted on my NordVPN that I have a high risk security vulnerability in VMWare so I tried updating my RH VM and it says "This system is registered with an entitlement server, but is not receiving updates. You can use subscription-manager to assign subscriptions.Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9 for x86_64 - AppStre 640  B/s | 468  B     00:00Errors during downloading metadata for repository 'rhel-9-for-x86_64-appstream-rpms':- Status code: 403 forhttps://cdn.redhat.com/content/dist/rhel9/9/x86_64/appstream/os/repodata/repomd.xml(IP: 184.51.68.251)Error: Failed to download metadata for repo 'rhel-9-for-x86_64-appstream-rpms': Cannot download repomd.xml: Cannot download repodata/repomd.xml: All mirrors were triedI found an old redhat sub that said dnf -y update, but as you can see that command didn't work. I don't know what most of this means but I can tell the update didn't work lol. I've tried searching the RH documentation but "how to update virtual machine" pulls up no answers. It's me to articles about cloud, ansible, or anything else that isn't relevant. I would much appreciate a little help and if I must receive shame for failing such an elementary task then I welcome that as well. Thank you for any and all your hellp.Edit: My apologies but I forgot to add that I'm signed up for their free developer subscription, which I did validate that it is active until September next year. So I'm just trying to figure out if my sub is active then why am I not getting to update my vm.Edit 2.0: As of right now, my answer was to upgrade to the newest version of VMWare Workstation which results in losing your prior VMs and you have to create a new one. I wish we could've been able to figure out why I couldn't update my rhel9 VM to help people in the future but that's what happened. Thank you for the help you tried to provide and I wish you well.
Help please: spice-nsis freedesktopgitlab repo page stuck at loading in browser in Windows 10 VM Help please: spice-nsis freedesktopgitlab repo page stuck at loading in browser in Windows 10 VMu/sohang-3112•4 mo. agoHelp please: spice-nsis freedesktopgitlab repo page stuck at loading in browser in Windows 10 VMspice-nsis gitlab repo page stuck at loading in browser in Windows 10 VMr/gitlab•4 mo. agospice-nsis gitlab repo page stuck at loading in browser in Windows 10 VM5comments
Bash Scripting Vs My Brain. (Brain is losing lol ) Bash Scripting Vs My Brain. (Brain is losing lol )u/Ok-Berry-2727•4 mo. agoBash Scripting Vs My Brain. (Brain is losing lol )I don't know why I have a heard time with scripting. it seems like I read the question but my brain will not put it into logic format in my head so that I can create the script. I know what it wants but I dont know how to put it their per say. I could break down piece by piece but that usually eats up time doing so.  any advice for  getting better with scripting or better with the translation aspect within my head.
How to keep my RHCE status valid How to keep my RHCE status validu/c7b3rx•4 mo. agoHow to keep my RHCE status validHello everyone,I did RHCSA in 2022 and RHCE in 2023 my RHCE is valid until 2026 I would like to maintain my RHCE status and pursue RHCA, but unfortunately I cannot afford to purchase RHLS as it is extremely expensive in Pakistan although it is relatively cheaper in India, Bangladesh and other neighboring countries, I don't know how they determine RHLS priceI don’t think I can achieve RHCA without RHLS, anyways my question is how can I keep my RHCE status active? Do I need to pass both exams again or can I take just one exam to extend my RHCE validity?Since RHCSA exam (EX200) is relatively easier and shorter than RHCE (EX294) can I simply pass RHCSA (EX200) to renew my RHCE? Also, what happens if I take the exam after my RHCE has already expired?Thank you in advance for your guidance
latency issues in ActiveMQ latency issues in ActiveMQu/trex078•4 mo. agolatency issues in ActiveMQHi All,Our application is consuming messages within ~ 50 ms. But for someday it takes few seconds to consume the messages even if there is no gc and jvm heap spike in it.  So what could be the possible reason for it?
Troubleshooting regarding the IDM vs. AD trust relationship Troubleshooting regarding the IDM vs. AD trust relationshipu/Far-Horse4858•4 mo. agoTroubleshooting regarding the IDM vs. AD trust relationshipI installed my RHEL IDM server and set up the trust relationship in my Windows AD. The ipa trust-show, trustdomain-find commands work, but ipa trust-fetch-domains, id doesn't. I can connect to Kinit for all users except the administrator user, which displays"Kinit: KDC has no support for encryption type while getting initial credentials"But I enabled Kerberos configuration for sha256, 128, and rc on Windows AD. I searched but I can't find anything; has anyone had this problem before or does anyone have an idea on how to solve it?
refreshing-my-email-every-hour refreshing-my-email-every-houru/BowlerIndependent731•4 mo. agorefreshing-my-email-every-hourI wrapped up interviews with the hiring manager, recruiter, and panel earlier this week. The recruiter said they were aiming to close things out by the end of the week, so now I’m in that refreshing-my-email-every-hour stage.For those who’ve been through the Red Hat process; what usually happens after all interviews are done?Hoping no news is good news… they wouldn’t call with bad news on a Friday, right? 😅In the meantime, does anyone have insight into Red Hat’s benefits package? Open enrollment is top of mind lately, and I’d love to get a sense of what’s offered.
Register for OpenShift Commons alongside KubeCon NA! Register for OpenShift Commons alongside KubeCon NA!u/Kube_fan_1009•4 mo. agoRegister for OpenShift Commons alongside KubeCon NA!Register today for Red Hat OpenShift Commons hosted alongside KubeCon NA in Atlanta, GA on November 10th!Hear fromreal users sharing real OpenShift storiesacross a variety of companies including Northrop Grumman, Morgan Stanley, Dell, Banco do Brasil, and more!Save your seat!
Red Hat Satellite ISS (Inter Satellite Syn) Tutorial: Synchronize Your Satellites like a Pro Red Hat Satellite ISS (Inter Satellite Syn) Tutorial: Synchronize Your Satellites like a Prou/waldirio•4 mo. agoRed Hat Satellite ISS (Inter Satellite Syn) Tutorial: Synchronize Your Satellites like a ProHelloIn today's video, let's learn how to setup Red Hat Satellite ISS (Inter Satellite Sync), in a way that your disconnected Satellite (No Internet Access) will be able to sync content from your connected Satellite (the one with Internet Access).https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tmZgl0Yg9lcEnjoy it!Wally
Partitioning in RHEL and Linux in General Partitioning in RHEL and Linux in Generalu/Minute-Bit6804•4 mo. agoPartitioning in RHEL and Linux in GeneralI am an electronics engineering student/practitioner and I have decided to run Linux for some software tools. Some commercial software tools, which I use and anticipate to use, such as MATLAB, Ansys Electromagnetics and FPGA tools from AMD-Xilinx and Altera have installers for both Windows and Linux. Some tools are exclusively Windows based eg the big three PCB design softwares from Altium, Cadence and Siemens. Some tools are also exclusive to Linux eg the major VLSI software tools from Cadence, Siemens and Synopsys used to design semiconductor chips. I am in some other forums for these software tools and quite a number of people say that the software tools that have installers in both Windows and Linux run best and fastest in Linux. As a result, I am trying to shift some of my work to Linux for those that are claimed to be faster. Also, I'd like to try out those that exclusively run on Linux, those used in chip design (this is my major reason to have Linux) because I will use them in my career/studies. The vendors of these chip design tools have RHEL as their most preferred OS so it would seem that I am already constrained on what Linux distro to use. I therefore plan to use RHEL for all my Linux work.One thing I like about Windows is the partitioning. You have the C drive for all system files/folders as well as  it being the default installation location for third party software like these engineering tools. You then have other volumes for your own files eg MATLAB installs in C/Program Files/MATLAB and I have my projects in my E volume (E/MATLAB). I like this seperation using volumes.Partitioning in Linux on the other hand requires at least 4 major volumes from what I've gathered, /boot, /boot/efi, /swap and /root. /root is the most voluminous and is where the OS files live. I am curious if I can replicate the same thing I have in Windows here in RHEL, have the /root as my "C drive" and another volume/partition as one which is purely for my files and folders, my "E volume". Is this advisable? If not, how would you go about it?Where do you recommend these commercial tools be installed? MATLAB for example has documentation/example with the software having been installed in the /usr directory here :Start MATLAB on Linux Platforms - MATLAB & Simulink. My limited reading about Linux has mostly pointed at /opt as the best location for these kind of third party, commercial, software tools. How and where do you recommend to go about installing these kind of software tools?Thank you.
Request for referral Request for referralu/Playful-Gear7004•4 mo. agoRequest for referralHi everyone,I hope you’re doing well! I recently came across the Software Engineer Intern (R-050061) position at Red Hat, and I’m really excited about the opportunity. I’m very interested in applying and was wondering if anyone here could kindly refer me for this role.
EX436 EX436u/ActualRuin9489•4 mo. agoEX436I'm preparing for EX436 exam, while going through the exam objectives I found the below two objectives, can any one help me on how to configure them ?Configure cluster logging and monitoringConfigure cluster logging so that each node system activity is logged to a separate fileConfigure cluster logging so that logging messages will be forwarded to journald
trust IDM AD. List AD contact in Rhel trust IDM AD. List AD contact in Rhelu/Far-Horse4858•4 mo. agotrust IDM AD. List AD contact in RhelTo my knowledge, there are two types of relationship to connect Rhel IDM to AD. The first is the trust relationship and the second is to synchronize/copy contacts to IDM. I am trying to do a lab on this in a test environment. For the trust, is there a way to display AD users in IDM and enable Rhel IDM OTF for them? Or with the first relationship, what is the least greedy but most beneficial choice available to me?
Help with RHCE exam version 9 Help with RHCE exam version 9u/Face_Vast•4 mo. agoHelp with RHCE exam version 9I'm asking for your help... They often mention that you shouldn't do more than what is written in the instructions. But it seems reasonable to me to check whether httpd is installed and running, because it may not be running, or when they test it on new virtual machines, httpd may not be installed... so it probably makes sense to do this?8. Create a playbook named webcontent.yml, which should be executed on a group of web servers.i) Create a directory /webdev, which should be owned by the wheel group.ii) Assign permissions user=rwx, group=rwx, others=rx, and use special permissions for the group for /webdev.iii) The directory /webdev should have the same selinux context type as "httpd" (httpd_sys_content_t)iv) Create a soft link /webdev to /var/www/html/webdev.v) Create a file index.html in /webdev, and the content of the file should be "Development".vi) Allow traffic through the firewall for http.
RHCSA Question RHCSA Questionu/Dragonetti•4 mo. agoRHCSA QuestionI am currently studying for the RHCSA with the Asghar Ghori Book. I am having a hard time with Lab Exercise 4-2. I set the directory for 3770 permission, but when I test with the user; I never see the expected results. User1000 creates and file, but user2000 cannot modify. I see the -rw-r-r-. permission. I believe it is a umask setting issues, but the previous exercise makes no mention of permanently changing the umask. Any suggestions on what I am currently doing incorrectly?
When does it make sense to setup your first satellite server? When does it make sense to setup your first satellite server?u/CyberMattSecure•4 mo. agoWhen does it make sense to setup your first satellite server?At what point do larger organizations typically find it worthwhile to utilize RedHat Satellite?
job scheduling RHSCA via crontab job scheduling RHSCA via crontabu/Ok-Berry-2727•4 mo. agojob scheduling RHSCA via crontabseems like I'm seeing other methods other than the crontab and cron for scheduling. I know it and got it down pack but I read some others say that the system.timer method is better to use. Anyone else heard this as well? should i focus on getting better with the second method now . will i be needing both for the exam. the second method looks like it would be apart of the RHCE exam instead of the RHSCA ? or im just thinking to much at this point.
When does it make sense to setup your first satellite server? When does it make sense to setup your first satellite server?u/CyberMattSecure•4 mo. agoWhen does it make sense to setup your first satellite server?At what point do you typically see larger organizations adopt RedHat Satellite, and is it a worthwhile investment?
Could Anyone Share a RHCSA Promotion Code? Could Anyone Share a RHCSA Promotion Code?u/BigJeweler509•4 mo. agoCould Anyone Share a RHCSA Promotion Code?Hi everyone,I’m a student, but taking the RHCSA exam is a bit financially difficult for me right now.If there are any remaining promotion codes or discounts available, I’d really appreciate it- DM for me plzThank you so much for your understanding!
How To Setup your ISS (Inter Satellite Synchronization) on Red Hat Satellite via webUI How To Setup your ISS (Inter Satellite Synchronization) on Red Hat Satellite via webUIu/waldirio•4 mo. agoHow To Setup your ISS (Inter Satellite Synchronization) on Red Hat Satellite via webUIHello,Let's watch in this video how to do the configuration in Satellite webUI to setup the ISS (Inter Satellite Sync)https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UJ9b7nokJ4YEnjoy it!Wally
Recruitment process for tech positions, delays? Recruitment process for tech positions, delays?u/Visual_Position_6920•4 mo. agoRecruitment process for tech positions, delays?Hello,I had an interview with a TA almost a month ago now. The interview went well but I have not heard back since. I tried emailing the TA but my email bounced, saying that the email is no longer valid. On workday the listing is still active and "In Progress". The TA was my only point of contact. Has anyone ever experience something similar or could you share your experience of the recruitment process. How long does it take usually
Rescue kernel root password reset? (RHCSA) Rescue kernel root password reset? (RHCSA)u/daredevil1302•4 mo. agoRescue kernel root password reset? (RHCSA)I did my first RHCSA attempt back in august ( I failed ). Of course, it had a password reset task but the notes said that accessing GRUB won't work and it would need to be done using rescue kernel. How different is this compared to the rd.break or /bin/bash methods?Edit: It's on RHEL 9.3
What are some good resources for getting started with Ansible/RHCE What are some good resources for getting started with Ansible/RHCEu/Due-Author631•4 mo. agoWhat are some good resources for getting started with Ansible/RHCEI just got my RHCSA last week and looking at Ansible but feeling kinda overwhelmed.I have access to O'Reilly Learning but Sander's video series for the EX294 seems to get pretty advanced pretty quickly.
Anyone work as Linux Kernel Developer ? Anyone work as Linux Kernel Developer ?u/Kind_Client_5961•4 mo. agoAnyone work as Linux Kernel Developer ?Hello, wanted to ask about Linux Kernel Developer role. I'm graduate engineer and have a interview next week for the role. My hands are mostly dirty with C and C++ things. I'm wondering what Kernel Developers looks like as professional, what they are doing job mostly ? Job post mention about open source development. What it works ? Do we merge our changeset into linux/kernel upstream ? How is feeling working on open source project ?
How to study for RHCSA exam? How to study for RHCSA exam?u/mehrdadft•4 mo. agoHow to study for RHCSA exam?I have been using Ubuntu LTS for the past 5 years as sysadmin in my current company but I was thinking about getting certified. But I have a tough time finding study material. Does anyone know good study guide videos, preferably free? I passed CCNA and AZ-104 with free content but I can't find something for red hat? Should I even get certified if I have worked with linux for 5 years? Looking at the material, there are some gaps in my knowledge but not too much.
Where did Westford go? Where did Westford go?u/omenosdev•4 mo. agoWhere did Westford go?I was talking with a family member the other day who told me one of their coworkers mentioned the Westford office had closed. As a Masshole myself, I was surprised considering the talent in that office. The only results from an online search pointed to a declaration from Red Hat to the town about not renewing their lease to the building.So, where has everyone gone? I can't imagine the staff was laid off. Maybe they've been moved to Lowell or Boston, but that wouldn't be the easiest transition, though. The only other options I can think off are merging them into one of the many IBM locations in the surrounding area or leaning further into remote work.
What a handsome hat, isn’t it??? What a handsome hat, isn’t it???u/Human-Confection1475•4 mo. agoWhat a handsome hat, isn’t it???
Red hat London Summit Red hat London Summitu/Human-Confection1475•4 mo. agoRed hat London Summit
Passed RHCSA Passed RHCSAu/Due-Author631•4 mo. agoPassed RHCSAPassed today. No one talks about how brutal the screen resolution is. I have a native 2560 × 1440 17" Laptop monitor. I turned it down to 1080 and it was still annoyingly small. Also consoles randomly held keys for a second every few mins. Kinda brutal when a typo could mean a 0 on some points if you misname something.
best practice to update IPA Server best practice to update IPA Serveru/SamirPesiron•4 mo. agobest practice to update IPA ServerHelloI ve a 6 Identity Management Servers, and i'am looking for update them from ( 4.9.13-12 to 4.9.13-20 )Should i stop the ipa server usingsystemctl stop ipaBefore execute the update ?
Personalization in RHEL 10 Personalization in RHEL 10u/Minute-Bit6804•4 mo. agoPersonalization in RHEL 10Did the dnf front-end change in RHEL 10? Both dnf and yum do not install gedit and gnome-tweaks. I also can't find tweaks in the "software".  Any workarounds?
Transitioning to a security role Transitioning to a security roleu/Napster_Lib_9429•4 mo. agoTransitioning to a security roleI have been a sysadmin for 4 years in a company and i resigned  will take a security related role in the next company, what are redhat related security related things i should focus on, in the interview they were happy that i installed redhat satellite and have a decent idea about redhat insights
How does one sign up for the RHCSA exam? How does one sign up for the RHCSA exam?u/ten-oh-four•4 mo. agoHow does one sign up for the RHCSA exam?I've been looking for a way to sign up for the RHCSA exam to no avail. Am I an idiot? Can someone please lend a hand? Thanks!Edit - to be clear, I'm usingthis site, selecting my country, and trying to click on 'Get started' to no avail. There's no link there. I've tried three browsers and an incognito window. Is this working for others?Edit 2 - for others hitting this issue, inspect the element in developer tools to reveal a link. For the super lazy, the link is here:https://training-lms.redhat.com/lmt/clmsBrowseV2.prMain?site=redhat&in_region=us&in_keyword=EX200
Quick question about the next posts Quick question about the next postsu/waldirio•4 mo. agoQuick question about the next postsHello all, good afternoonI hope you are doing well. I believe you all know that I post videos weekly, and one feature that I saw here in reddit, is posting the video directly, in a way that you can also play it on reddit.My question is, which one do you prefer?A text/description + link to the video?or2. The video, in a way that the thumbnail will be present, and once you click on play, the same will start.Thank you in advance!Wally
Lil help please? Lil help please?u/Plane-Speaker-7551•4 mo. agoLil help please?I’m a final year student in france, currently interning in a sysops team. I want to take the cert RHCSA, but I’m kinda lost idk which course to take to get my hands dirty with the cli and familiarize with the task. I’ll take all recommendations, thanks !
Installing Ansible Automation Platform (AAP) 2.6 via Containerized Version - All-In-One Installing Ansible Automation Platform (AAP) 2.6 via Containerized Version - All-In-Oneu/waldirio•4 mo. agoInstalling Ansible Automation Platform (AAP) 2.6 via Containerized Version - All-In-OneHelloAre you ready to start your Ansible Automation Journey?https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9KeofmpeHmwToday, let's learn how to deploy AAP 2.6 Containerized All-in-One. You will need just a single box, RHEL10, to deploy all the components and start your Ansible Automation Platform Journey!Enjoy it!Wally
Any way to find out package version updates planned for next minor release? Any way to find out package version updates planned for next minor release?u/ninevolt•4 mo. agoAny way to find out package version updates planned for next minor release?Hi, quick question:We've got a large set of template-heavy C++ apps currently being built with `gcc-toolset-13` in RHEL 9 based images, tried to update to using gcc-toolset-14 and ran facefirst into template errors that are apparently fixed in 14.3.Is there anyway to confirm whether the `gcc-toolset-14` RPMs will be seeing an update to 14.3 for RHEL 9 in the upcoming 9.7 minor release?( I really don't want to have to build a gcc RPM again )
Ansible Automation Platform: Splunk with event streams Ansible Automation Platform: Splunk with event streamsu/seanx820•4 mo. agoAnsible Automation Platform: Splunk with event streamsAnsible Automation Platform: Splunk with event streamsr/ansible•4 mo. agoAnsible Automation Platform: Splunk with event streams22upvotes·2comments
RHCSA - Why does it seem like so many people struggle with nmtui? RHCSA - Why does it seem like so many people struggle with nmtui?u/Due-Author631•4 mo. agoRHCSA - Why does it seem like so many people struggle with nmtui?I'm sitting for the exam in a couple days, but it seems like every few days theres someone on here that gets a 0 on networking and swears they did it correctly in nmtui. Do we know why these happen? I've practiced with nmtui probably a hundred times and the only time I had issues was when I didn't change it from automatic to manual, but it still lets you input ip/gateway/dns.Edit: Passed today with 100% on networking with nmtui.
How many of you applied to RedHat SDE intern offcampus few days ago? How many of you applied to RedHat SDE intern offcampus few days ago?u/Charming_Host_7384•4 mo. agoHow many of you applied to RedHat SDE intern offcampus few days ago?How many of you applied to RedHat SDE intern offcampus few days ago?r/Btechtards•4 mo. agoHow many of you applied to RedHat SDE intern offcampus few days ago?same as title.2upvotes·11comments
OpenShift SNO hang/freeze issue OpenShift SNO hang/freeze issueu/GreatPoet4131•4 mo. agoOpenShift SNO hang/freeze issueOpenShift SNO hang/freeze issuer/openshift•4 mo. agoOpenShift SNO hang/freeze issueHey folks, hitting a weird issue and could use some brain power.Environment:Platform: Azure DAS16v5 VMs (AMD EPYC)OpenShift: SNO 4.16Issue: Cluster hangs during some network service restarts(which i cant pinpoint), becomes completely unresponsiveDescription: SNO node freezes for unknown reason, CSR approvals fail because cluster API becomes unreachable. Have to manually approve CSR and restart server to get things to work againRedhat support pages tell me its because of a driver issue, but its too vaugePlease ref:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7128722I need to know if any of you super awsome people faced this issue or why this occurs and any workarounds would help, as I had some outages for this.Thanks again.P.S also I have an SNO on prem with same spec its working great, expect it has a intel ice lake processor (i dont know if that info helps)3upvotes·1comment
Looking for Promotional code Looking for Promotional codeu/KreckyN_•4 mo. agoLooking for Promotional codeHello guys,I noticed my promotional code has recently expired while I was purchasing an exam voucher.Could I kindly ask, would it be possible for someone to share theirs promotional code with me? It has 3 uses in total. :)Thanks a lot.
Red Hat referral blocked because I already applied – what should I do? HELP ASAP Red Hat referral blocked because I already applied – what should I do? HELP ASAPu/Charming_Host_7384•4 mo. agoRed Hat referral blocked because I already applied – what should I do? HELP ASAPRed Hat referral blocked because I already applied – what should I do? HELP ASAPr/Btechtards•4 mo. agoRed Hat referral blocked because I already applied – what should I do? HELP ASAP2comments
Incorrect description of the fourth column in /proc/modules documentation Incorrect description of the fourth column in /proc/modules documentationu/HelgenHelden•4 mo. agoIncorrect description of the fourth column in /proc/modules documentationIn the documentation athttps://docs.redhat.com/de/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/5/html/deployment_guide/s2-proc-modulesthe following sentence appears:“The fourth column states if the module depends upon another module to be present in order to function, and lists those other modules.”This seems to be incorrect.The fourth column in/proc/modulesactually lists the modules thatdepend on this module(i.e., modules that use it), not the modules this one depends upon.A corrected version could read:“The fourth column lists the other modules that depend on this module (i.e., modules that use it).”
How To Sign Up for a Red Hat Account and Get a Free Trial How To Sign Up for a Red Hat Account and Get a Free Trialu/waldirio•4 mo. agoHow To Sign Up for a Red Hat Account and Get a Free TrialHelloI today's video, let's learn how to create your account at Red Hat customer portal, and how to request a trial!https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6FfaaExI1KgFor the sake of this video, we will be using the AAP (Ansible Automation Platform) as example to request the trial.Enjoy it!Wally
using ctl+v and ctl +c on Exam when adding to configurations and files using ctl+v and ctl +c on Exam when adding to configurations and filesu/Ok-Berry-2727•4 mo. agousing ctl+v and ctl +c on Exam when adding to configurations and filesIs their any restriction on copying and pasting on the exam. say I want to add the UUID to the fstab but don't want to type in all the numbers letters and etc.  I usually used the blkid command to get the UUID then copy it and put it in an echo command then pipe | it to the tee -a /etc/fstab.  so for those who have took the test have you had any trouble with copying and pasting or you have to write it all out.
Business Automation Manager Open Editions Business Automation Manager Open Editionsu/Achilles541•4 mo. agoBusiness Automation Manager Open EditionsHi, is anyone here who has been worked with Business Automation Manager Open Edition (ex. RedHat Process Automation Manager)? I have been delegated to recognize this platform/tool. But it is so hard to find any case study or something like that about this tool.
systemd timer vs cron systemd timer vs cronu/Ok-Berry-2727•4 mo. agosystemd timer vs cronis systemd timer being used now over cron job on the exam?
What else outside of exam topics? What else outside of exam topics?u/SCIP10001•4 mo. agoWhat else outside of exam topics?Hello everyone,I am currently going over the RHCSA 10 exam with Sander. Although his course goes over topics on the exam, I am wondering what else should one know to be a competent administrator that may not have been on the exam? Or topics that one should go more in-depth than the exam tests on?
Lab Environment not working Lab Environment not workingu/iComeNuts•4 mo. agoLab Environment not workingIs anyone else having issues with the Lab Environment this weekend?It keeps building for a couple of hours and keeps starting for an indefinite amount of time.Tried deleting and creating the lab a few times, same thing. Left it run overnight, this morning it was still starting.On RHCSA II course, v10.0, location EMEA.
FWIW, RHEL 10 is a great developer desktop OS FWIW, RHEL 10 is a great developer desktop OSu/viewofthelake•4 mo. agoFWIW, RHEL 10 is a great developer desktop OSRHEL is now reliably shipped on a 3 year cadence, and the latest one comes with a mostly up-to-date GNOME 47 desktop. The base OS is well put-together and well vetted, and we all know how to get the most recent packages (either flatpaks, rustup, toolboxes, etc.) if we need them. It makes a solid developer workstation.I know this is a Friday night fluff post, but wanted to note how this is a solid experience for devs in a way that I don't think it was up through RHEL 9.
RHCSA preparation RHCSA preparationu/Connect-Feature-491•4 mo. agoRHCSA preparationHello there, everyone! I plan on starting to prepare for the RHCSA exam from scratch. What version of RHEL should I use? I have been using RHEL 10 for a month. What course, book, or any other resource would you recommend? And how much time would it take?
What are some of the more fun Red Hat Online Learning courses? What are some of the more fun Red Hat Online Learning courses?u/Mike_B_G•4 mo. agoWhat are some of the more fun Red Hat Online Learning courses?I have access to the Red Hat Online Learning subscription at least for the next few months, and I have gone through some courses there, but most of them I don't find particularly interesting, and it's hard to stay focused on them.  What are some of the more fun/exciting courses, and particularly ones that are useful and engaging?
Anyone on rawhide dealing with weird cpu spikes from gnome-shell? Anyone on rawhide dealing with weird cpu spikes from gnome-shell?u/newbie80•40 min. agoAnyone on rawhide dealing with weird cpu spikes from gnome-shell?DiscussionNo idea what's going on or why. It might be firefox related, it only happens when using comfyui from firefox. I'm going to have to switch DE's for a little while, it makes my machine loud and unusable.
Real Realu/East-Action-1636•3 days agoRealDiscussion
Moved from Debian/Sid to Fedora Moved from Debian/Sid to Fedorau/new_zeus98•8 hr. agoMoved from Debian/Sid to FedoraSupportI was dual booting Debian with Windows10 for about 3 years. Recently, I discovered that in debian I was installing packages from multiple sources (trixie, bookworm, and sid). I don't know why, but mostly I was trying to install some packages that weren't in the stable version, so I did a full-upgrade to sid. I regretted it for some reason, though it didn't break. But today, I had to make a choice: reinstall Debian stable or change distro and keep my data/files.I decided to go with Fedora KDE, downloaded the ISO file and started the installation process (had to map my previous home partition to the new one using the installer, and created the same username that was on Debian). It took no more than 30 minutes, and now I'm on Fedora with nearly the same environment. My .local settings were preserved, my files were untouched, and Flatpak apps just needed to be reinstalled, and voila, even the browser kept its data (bookmarks, extensions, history, etc.)Every tutorial kept telling to back up data before proceeding, as my main concern was to not lose my documents and files. But I did the whole process without a backup 😅😅😅. I know it can be risky but it was thrilling, and I was very happy when it worked
I really didn't want Fedora to be the answer, but it was. I really didn't want Fedora to be the answer, but it was.u/Icy-Astronomer-9814•10 days agoI really didn't want Fedora to be the answer, but it was.Screenshot
Anyone rocking an Arm laptop with Fedora? Anyone rocking an Arm laptop with Fedora?u/thunderborg•9 hr. agoAnyone rocking an Arm laptop with Fedora?DiscussionI’ve been very curious about Arm for a couple years, before I left windows I was considering a Surface Pro X, or a Snapdragon X, I keep getting ads for a couple RK3588 laptops, and the Pi Computer Module laptop, and was curious if anyone is running Fedora on one?
I have to admit that it's better than Ubuntu I have to admit that it's better than Ubuntuu/Walkowiak_Olaf•6 days agoI have to admit that it's better than UbuntuScreenshot
Problem in installation process Problem in installation processu/Minimum-Row6464•10 hr. agoProblem in installation processSupport
LUKS and performance LUKS and performanceu/ArticPineapples•3 hr. agoLUKS and performanceDiscussionI want to daily drive fedora 43 on my laptop, I game and do some office work, are there any alternatives to LUKS or is the performance hit really not that bad?I looked through the sub and I see conflicting answers over the past few years.since its a laptop that will be out of the house sometimes while im on trips, I really want to make sure its secure enough for keeping some personal documents on it.thanks!
I've been using Fedora on my gaming PC since September. Linux really has come a long way for gamers. I've been using Fedora on my gaming PC since September. Linux really has come a long way for gamers.u/_Oolon_•13 days agoI've been using Fedora on my gaming PC since September. Linux really has come a long way for gamers.Screenshot
Fedora house cleanup? Fedora house cleanup?u/CardiologistReady548•13 hr. agoFedora house cleanup?DiscussionHello, I've been using fedora for a while now and was wondering what you guys do to clean up a messy home directory with a lot of dot files, old .config folders for programs you uninstalled, or to somehow visualize bloat in terms of programs you installed and see what you don't need anymore.
POV: you did not update fedora for 2 days POV: you did not update fedora for 2 daysu/Vivid_Search674•4 days agoPOV: you did not update fedora for 2 daysScreenshot
This extension improved my usability of the GNOME workflow This extension improved my usability of the GNOME workflowu/Dodogo-silverblue•17 hr. agoThis extension improved my usability of the GNOME workflowDiscussionhttps://github.com/DilZhaan/ScreenToSpace
new to fedora What are these? Which one should i get for personal use? new to fedora What are these? Which one should i get for personal use?u/rip_Bacon13•5 days agonew to fedora What are these? Which one should i get for personal use?Support
Joined fedora gng after using arch for a while! Joined fedora gng after using arch for a while!u/Jain1shh•23 hr. agoJoined fedora gng after using arch for a while!DiscussionI’ve been an Arch and Hyprland user for quite some time. Before that, I was using Ubuntu. This isn’t my first time trying Fedora, but after experimenting with many distributions, I realized that what I really want is stability with access to bleeding edge software.Arch wasn’t the best option for stability. Since this is my only machine, I was always worried it might break at any time. Fedora strikes a much better balance for me.I really like Fedora’s close to vanilla GNOME experience. It’s far better than the heavily modified GNOME that comes with Ubuntu. The interface feels clean, and the touchscreen experience is noticeably better than KDE. On Arch with Hyprland, touchscreen support was never really usable, which makes sense since it isn’t designed for that. Fedora, on the other hand, handles it well.Overall, Fedora feels far more polished and professional than most Ubuntu and Debian based distributions.
Just switched to Fedora Just switched to Fedorau/nightmarvel1•13 days agoJust switched to FedoraScreenshot
Hello friends! Sharing my setup here. Hello friends! Sharing my setup here.u/wolfy-reddit•6 days agoHello friends! Sharing my setup here.Screenshot
Wifi connectivity issues in Fedora Wifi connectivity issues in Fedorau/randomguy054•12 hr. agoWifi connectivity issues in FedoraSupportI just installed Fedora 43 (kernel 6.17.1) and I’m having wifi connectivity issues with a Realtek RTL8188FU USB adapter. It connects to the wifi but the link rate is stuck at 6.0 Mbit/s and I’m seeing 30–60% packet loss and very high latency (~10000 ms) even when pinging the router itself. I did lsmod and it shows it’s using the rtl8xxxu driver. The same adapter works perfectly on Windows
Help on fedora 43 kde needed Help on fedora 43 kde neededu/Present-Ad-8531•15 hr. agoHelp on fedora 43 kde neededDiscussionI had installed fedora 43 kde plasma.Then as suggested by internet installed nvidia drivers which messed up monitors brightness controls.Then removed nvidia drivers and dract forced it.After that when I rebooted, the screen kept showing blank and nothing loaded.I used same live usb to reinstall. Yesterday it was giving erof errors. Change ports and tried today.Now the keyboard lights up but the screen shows blank.Can someone please tell me what could be problem?Computer is lenovo idepad gaming with amd and nvidia 3050.Ps - the first installed worked quite good only. I had configured libre wolf and all.I don't need gaming,
Fedora Workstaion 43 help Fedora Workstaion 43 helpu/uncle_nobodyy•19 hr. agoFedora Workstaion 43 helpSupportHello everyone. I first installed Fedora KDE Plasma on my old computer at home. Then, since I couldn’t get used to it, I installed Fedora Workstation 43, which I thought Because it is similar to macOS. However, unlike what I’ve seen on other Fedora users’ systems on Reddit, the application bar that appears when you press the “Super” key doesn’t stay open for me, and it also doesn’t appear when I move the mouse over it. it only shows up when I press the “Super” key.Did I install a different version, or is there a setting I’m missing? I’d really appreciate your help.
I just installed Fedora! I just installed Fedora![deleted]•12 days agoI just installed Fedora!Screenshot
First time linux user and i love Fedora First time linux user and i love Fedorau/DalinarStormwagon•6 days agoFirst time linux user and i love FedoraScreenshot
What made you use fedora? What made you use fedora?u/ImAlekzzz•3 days agoWhat made you use fedora?Discussion
Thanks... (I can't get rid of these) Thanks... (I can't get rid of these)u/IsThereASuchThingAs•5 days agoThanks... (I can't get rid of these)Support
How do you change to X11 in fedora 43 KDE? How do you change to X11 in fedora 43 KDE?u/old_Anton•21 hr. agoHow do you change to X11 in fedora 43 KDE?SupportI understand that since 41, fedora has switch to use wayland in default, but (fortunately) not completely ditch X11 like other distro. There are tools that not completely compatible with wayland yet simply work with X11 better, so an option to use both until wayland becomes fully supported is better imo.I tried to install X11 via terminal and when logging out to switch it just gave me a black screen (where SSDM supposed to show up). This forced me to reinstall fedora 43 KDE plasma (fortunately it's still faster than windows). Does anyone know a safe way to install and use X11 without getting a critical issue like that? Has anyone sucecssful doing that?UPDATE:solved thanks tou/DayInfinite8322. Just need to sudo nano /etc/sddm.conf.d/10-display.confand copy paste this configuration:[General]DisplayServer=x11[X11DisplayServer]DisplayCommand=/usr/bin/X
One full year on Fedora Kde One full year on Fedora Kdeu/Aleg1970•6 days agoOne full year on Fedora KdeScreenshot
Fedora absolutely rocks these days.  Great work ! (KDE too.) Fedora absolutely rocks these days.  Great work ! (KDE too.)u/yycTechGuy•2 days agoFedora absolutely rocks these days.  Great work ! (KDE too.)DiscussionJust want to share some appreciation and gratitude for how fantastic, awesome and wonderful Fedora 43 is these days.  KDE too.I use both of these all day long, day in and day out.  Everything works, nothing crashes, rock solid, fantastic usability... the list of positive attributes goes on and on.My thanks to the devs that make this happen and the community for its great attitude and relentless pursuit of great software.
What tool can I use to interact with (or unlock) an iPad on Fedora Linux? What tool can I use to interact with (or unlock) an iPad on Fedora Linux?u/AbbreviationsBig3889•1 day agoWhat tool can I use to interact with (or unlock) an iPad on Fedora Linux?DiscussionHi, I’m using Fedora Linux and I’d like to know what tools are available to connect to or manage an iPad from Linux. Ideally, I’m looking for a way to access the device, make backups, reset or handle files directly from Fedora.What software or packages would you recommend?
How to change wallpaper on Display Manager (cosmic-greeter)? How to change wallpaper on Display Manager (cosmic-greeter)?u/worldsfinest2•3 hr. agoHow to change wallpaper on Display Manager (cosmic-greeter)?DiscussionI'm using Fedora Cosmic, in my first use there's a wallpaper on the display manager (cosmic-greeter), after that the wallpaper is gone and just display a blank grey screen but the login form is still there tho. How to fix it?Thank you!
Im trying to install nvidia drivers...It's a 3rd reinstall of the entire os now. Im trying to install nvidia drivers...It's a 3rd reinstall of the entire os now.u/PETux2077•9 days agoIm trying to install nvidia drivers...It's a 3rd reinstall of the entire os now.Support
Impressive RAM usage Impressive RAM usage[deleted]•11 days agoImpressive RAM usageDiscussion
New to Fedora New to Fedorau/Prestigious-Gift-816•6 days agoNew to FedoraDiscussion
Screen Flickering Screen Flickeringu/Nearby-Percentage-33•1 day agoScreen FlickeringDiscussion
So wanted to know how to make the copilot button into customized shortcut like it should open gemini in the default browser?43 gnome user So wanted to know how to make the copilot button into customized shortcut like it should open gemini in the default browser?43 gnome useru/MediumDrawing247•4 days agoSo wanted to know how to make the copilot button into customized shortcut like it should open gemini in the default browser?43 gnome userDiscussion
what car would fedora be? what car would fedora be?u/MIkaela39752•14 days agowhat car would fedora be?Discussion
Have to "reset" wifi connection on pc everytime I turn pc on Have to "reset" wifi connection on pc everytime I turn pc onu/JoannaaM•6 hr. agoHave to "reset" wifi connection on pc everytime I turn pc onSupportHey guys! New fedora user. I really love it, so far. I've been wanting to switch from windows to linux for a long time now, and did it around the new year's.I have been having a small issue though, I can't remember if I've had it since the beginning or if it started with some extension or whatever. (I'll leave my list of extensions here just in case it's relevant.)The issue: Every time I turn my pc on, I have to "reset" the wifi connection, even though I have it supposedly appears "connected"My laptop is the lenovo ideapad 330-15IKB(in case that's relevant, as well)Thought about posting here to see if anyone can relate to it or if you know if I can do anything to fix it.Thanks in advance!
I'm having fun with my PC again :) I'm having fun with my PC again :)u/Mystrasun•26 days agoI'm having fun with my PC again :)Screenshot
how flatpaks change linux! how flatpaks change linux!u/DayInfinite8322•7 days agohow flatpaks change linux!Discussioni know that flatpaks have their own cons and some people still dont like them but lets discuss how flatpak benefits linux dekstop.my point:°Distro developers have to package every app in the repo, test them against other apps, so they dont conflit, it need lot of time.Now developers can focus on core os and apps are directly maintained by their developers through flatpaks.this benefits both app developers and os developers,app developers now dont have to package thier app for different distro formats, os developers now dont need to be worry about third party apps.
Fedora KDE 43 Installation Issues Fedora KDE 43 Installation Issuesu/Available-Middle1740•1 day agoFedora KDE 43 Installation IssuesSupportPC specs: i5 9600k, GTX 1070, 16gb ram.I finally broke away from Windows this week but things weren't as smooth as I expected. I did my research, tested various distros, and quickly realized that Fedora (specifically KDE Plasma) was the project for me. Like the title says, when I boot into the live iso of Fedora KDE 43 and try to click on "Install to Hard Drive", the installer crashes immediately. I don't even get the chance to pick a language or time zone. I then tried usingsudo anacondato use the installer in text mode to see what was going wrong and the error I got was‘anaconda 43.44 exception reportTraceback (most recent call first):File "/ust/lib/python3.14/site-packages/dasbus/client/handler.py", line 509, in _handle_method_error raise exception from NoneFile "/usr/lib/python3.14/site-packages/dasbus/client/handler.py", line 483, in _get_method_reply return self._handle_method_error (error)File "/usr/lib/python3.14/site-packages/dasbus/client/handler.py", line 450, in _call_method return self._get_method_reply(File "/usr/lib64/python3.14/site-packages/pyanaconda/ui/tui/spokes/installation_progress.py", line 134, in _on_installation_done self._task_proxy.Finish()File "/usr/lib/python3.14/site-packages/dasbus/signal.py", line 53, in emitcallback(*args, **kwargs)File "/usr/lib/python3.14/site-packages/dasbus/client/handler.py", line 365, in _signal_callbackcallback(*unwrap_variant (parameters) )File "/ust/lib/python3.14/site-packages/dasbus/client/handler.py", line 133, in _signal_callbackcallback(parameters, *callback_args)pyanaconda.modules.common.errors.installation.PayloadInstallationError: An error occurred during the transaction: The transaction process has ended with errors.’After getting the above error, I ended up using an iso of KDE 42 and updated to 43 from there so I eventually got where I needed to be but I'm wondering if anybody else has had this issue with the KDE 43 installer. I found one post (linked below) with this exact error on the forums from a couple weeks ago but his solution didn't help me and idek what he was talking about with efivars.https://discussion.fedoraproject.org/t/installing-fedora-on-uefi-without-efivars/180319/16I can successfully install versions 43 of Workstation, Silverblue, and Kinoite but for some reason, KDE Plasma 43 does not like me or my machine. Any troubleshooting or explanations would be appreciated.
Why does RPM Fusion take so long to update Nvidia drivers? Why does RPM Fusion take so long to update Nvidia drivers?u/bigfabs•6 hr. agoWhy does RPM Fusion take so long to update Nvidia drivers?DiscussionI use Fedora on my laptop and would love to on my PC too however found the Nvidia drivers are still on 580 and are outdated compared to even stable distros like Mint. Wtih 590 improving performance on dx12 games, is there a reason why the driver is yet to be updated?
Everything just works Everything just worksu/uid885•1 mo. agoEverything just worksDiscussion
Install Fedora on Lenovo Ideapad 5x Snapgragon X Plus Install Fedora on Lenovo Ideapad 5x Snapgragon X Plusu/bhaiphairu•8 hr. agoInstall Fedora on Lenovo Ideapad 5x Snapgragon X PlusSupportHas anyone been able to install fedora on Ideapad 5x using Snapdragon X plus? I have disabled secure boot and able to get to the grub menu but at that point it keeps rebooting. Any ideas?
So… I finally joined the club So… I finally joined the clubu/luckywetland•27 days agoSo… I finally joined the clubAnnouncement
Minecraft - The linux slayer Minecraft - The linux slayeru/PETux2077•4 days agoMinecraft - The linux slayerSupport
Line Out audio device changed identifier and now refuses to be selected (and speakers don't work). Line Out audio device changed identifier and now refuses to be selected (and speakers don't work).u/Sloogs•1 day agoLine Out audio device changed identifier and now refuses to be selected (and speakers don't work).SupportHi all, hopefully asking support questions is okay as I didn't see anything on the sidebar against it.My previous audio device used to be "Line Out - Family 17h/19h HD Audio Controller" up until a few days ago. It has switched to "Line Out - Ryzen HD Audio Controller."Now when I attempt to switch to it, it refuses to be selected and I can no longer use my speakers.It's possible this occurred after an update but unfortunately I don't have a good time frame of when the change happened as I had my audio going to my headset for a good while.I'm curious if anyone else has come across this issue or knows of a way to fix. I don't really have a good grasp of how Linux handles audio yet enough to feel to know where to start (but am willing to learn, hopefully with a bit of guidance.) Thank you for any help or ideas you're able to provide.System Info:Fedora 43 Workstation EditionKernel 6.18.8-200.fc43.x86_64Processor: AMD Ryzen 9 7950X 16-CoreMotherboard: MAG X670E TOMAHAWK WIFI (MS-7E12)Onboard Audio: Realtek ALCS1200AGNOME 49Pipewire AudioWayland
[new user] What is that "pin icon" rapresent in this context? it did seemingly appear out of nothing [new user] What is that "pin icon" rapresent in this context? it did seemingly appear out of nothingu/MannyRouge•2 days ago[new user] What is that "pin icon" rapresent in this context? it did seemingly appear out of nothingSupport
Can't boot without nomodeset after last update Can't boot without nomodeset after last updateu/lovegirin•8 hr. agoCan't boot without nomodeset after last updateSupportI run Nvidia and full disk encryption.After the last update I get a black screen after Grub. No prompt for password to unlock the disk. Only if I edit the latest Grub entry and add nomodeset will I see the prompt for the password (I've tried entering it blindly and that doesn't work) and get to boot normally. This is 6.18.9-200. If I select the previous grub entry, 6.18.8-200 it boots normally.Anyone else experience this?
Non stop flickering Screen in KDE - but only when laptop is cold Non stop flickering Screen in KDE - but only when laptop is coldu/malisadri•2 days agoNon stop flickering Screen in KDE - but only when laptop is coldSupportBeen using Fedora for about a year and generally I've been a very happy user.Something changed in the last week.If I power up my laptop and go straight to Fedora (KDE Plasma) then my screen would start flickering as if it's repeatedly changing resolution / HDR setting.  I only have a few seconds to do anything before it starts again.It doesnt seem to (only) be a hardware problem since the laptop is totally fine in Windows. So oftentimes I just play a game on Windows then after 15-30 minutes I could go to Fedora and it'd start just fine.Has anyone seen this kind of behavior before ?What could this be?
Where do I see full RAM usage? Where do I see full RAM usage?u/Neptune009•8 hr. agoWhere do I see full RAM usage?SupportI opened btop to see why my memory usage is so high but just can't find what is using it.I sorted the process list by memory use %, summed up everything above 0.0%, got 35.5% which would imply only around 36% * 32 = 11.5 GiB is in use, but every task manager type app is showing double that, btop itself showing 22.4/30.4 GiB = 74%What is using the rest, and how do I find it? I don't know if this is Fedora specific but I don't really have any leads either.
I keep coming back to fedora I keep coming back to fedorau/Similar_Reflection75•5 days agoI keep coming back to fedoraDiscussionI've uninstalled fedora workstation around 3 times by now. I've tried fedora kde, popos and some other one but I forgot which one.nothing feels like fedora.just wish it was more stable and didn't break so often with customisations.if fedora had good speaker driver support and was more stable I would get rid of Windows entirely.hope it happens someday
Issue changing default location of directories like Downloads, Documents, Pictures Issue changing default location of directories like Downloads, Documents, Picturesu/icecue88•2 days agoIssue changing default location of directories like Downloads, Documents, PicturesSupportIssue changing default location of directories like Downloads, Documents, Picturesr/linuxquestions•2 days agoIssue changing default location of directories like Downloads, Documents, PicturesI'm running Fedora 43, and I want to change the location of the default directories, but the bookmarks in Nautilus seem to break after I change the directory paths in~/.config/user-dirs.dirsI've changed~/.config/user-dirs.dirsto:XDG_DESKTOP_DIR="$HOME/Desktop" XDG_TEMPLATES_DIR="$HOME/Templates" XDG_PUBLICSHARE_DIR="$HOME/Public" XDG_DOCUMENTS_DIR="$HOME/Computer/30-39 documents" XDG_MUSIC_DIR="$HOME/Computer/40-49 media/41 music" XDG_PICTURES_DIR="$HOME/Computer/40-49 media/42 images" XDG_VIDEOS_DIR="$HOME/Computer/40-49 media/43 videos" XDG_DOWNLOAD_DIR="$HOME/Downloads"I use the same directory structure on my Ubuntu machine (also running Nautilus), so I don't think the spaces in my folder names are the issue.When I try to click the broken directories in the nautilus sidebar, I get an error message that states:Unable to find "/home/USER/Documents". Please check spelling and try again.I've not been able to find any answers online, as they mostly say to do what I've done above, and reboot. (eg.https://superuser.com/questions/1785778/linux-change-default-location-of-directories-like-downloads-documents-pictur)Does anyone know how to make this work?4upvotes·14comments
Properly integrated PWA with icon in dock and app drawer Properly integrated PWA with icon in dock and app draweru/fedor_zen•9 hr. agoProperly integrated PWA with icon in dock and app drawerDiscussionHey everyone!I just figured out how to properly set up an Edge PWA with correct Dock integration on GNOME 49 (using the official Edge build, not Flatpak, I haven’t tested this with other Edge builds).So, here’s the method:Install the PWA as usual and open its settings.Create a shortcut and pin it to your Dock.Navigate to:/home/$USER/.local/share/applicationsLocate the newly created .desktop file. You can rename it to anything you prefer. For example:pwa-marvin.desktop4. Edit the file:Replace the existingStartupWMClass=value with the one used in theIcon=line.Example:Icon=msedge-hbmpoimejchdhikdoghlcafcdljaghei-Profile_2So your StartupWMClass= should match it exactly:StartupWMClass=msedge-hbmpoimejchdhikdoghlcafcdljaghei-Profile_2AND THE MOST IMPORTANT: rename it to:StartupWMClass=msedge-_hbmpoimejchdhikdoghlcafcdljaghei-Profile_2Change theIcon=path to any custom icon you prefer, since the default icon is usually incorrect after installation. I just made "PWA_icons" folder in my home path.Your PWA should now display correctly in the app drawer and Dock, with proper window grouping and icon behavior.Final file example:#!/usr/bin/env xdg-open [Desktop Entry] Version=1.0 Terminal=false Type=Application Name=Amazing Marvin Exec=/opt/microsoft/msedge/microsoft-edge "--profile-directory=Profile 2" --app-id=hbmpoimejchdhikdoghlcafcdljaghei --app-url=https://app.amazingmarvin.com/ Icon=/home/ooomir/PWA_icons/marvin.pngmar StartupWMClass=msedge-_hbmpoimejchdhikdoghlcafcdljaghei-Profile_2Sorry for using Edge — I know 😅 — but I really like its Workspaces feature
Got RDP working! Got RDP working!u/Simon_Andrews•19 days agoGot RDP working!Discussion
Problem installing Fedora KDE Desktop alongside of Windows 11 Problem installing Fedora KDE Desktop alongside of Windows 11u/xDarki002x•6 days agoProblem installing Fedora KDE Desktop alongside of Windows 11SupportHallo, Linux noob here. I have some trouble with getting Fedora installed:I tried dual boot Win11 and Fedora KDE Desktop. In Windows I unallocated some space:In Fedora it looks like this:So basically it looks like the 760 GB are missing in the installer window or I'm doing something terribly wrong. I tired to switch Secure Boot from "Windows ..." to "Other OS" in the Bios, in the hope this would help and as expected nothing changed.Does anyone have an idea what is going wrong? Or am I doing something wrong here?Thanks in advance for helping :)PS: I used to have Win10 and Fedora Workstation. I remember that I had a similar problem... but then I just installed a 2 SSD and it worked like that. If I can't find another solution I will probably do this again, but prefer not to for some complicated reasons that are not relevant rn
new to fedora new to fedorau/DayInfinite8322•7 days agonew to fedoraScreenshot
FSR4 crahes when opening Menus FSR4 crahes when opening Menusu/theleninlover•6 days agoFSR4 crahes when opening MenusSupportI have a problem with fsr4 on my RX 7800xt (enabled with PROTON_FSR4_RDNA3_UPGRADE=1). It works fine in Arc Raiders but in Ark survival ascended it crashes when opening the inventory. In Monster Hunter Wilds it also crashes when opening some menus. I already tried installing the the git version of mesa but that didnt fix it. Is this a known problem and/or is there a fix?
Need help with ThinkPad fingerprint. Need help with ThinkPad fingerprint.u/Current_Associate_44•6 days agoNeed help with ThinkPad fingerprint.SupportHi everyone, i new to Fedora and i trying to enable the fingerprint in my laptop, i searched and any solution worked, i really confused for how i can make that works.My laptop is a ThinkPad T470Is a Fedora GNOMEThanks for any attention
This update may take a while This update may take a whileu/stanoddly•24 days agoThis update may take a whileDiscussion
[support] apt.t2linux.org unreachable for me – is there a mirror or alternative repo? [support] apt.t2linux.org unreachable for me – is there a mirror or alternative repo?u/stoikrus1•6 days ago[support] apt.t2linux.org unreachable for me – is there a mirror or alternative repo?SupportHi everyone,[firstly, apologies in advance for using chat gpt to draft this]I’m trying to get Linux running properly on a MacBook Pro 2019 (Intel, T2) and I’ve hit a wall that I can’t seem to get past.The core issue is that apt.t2linux.org / repo.t2linux.org is completely unreachable from my network. DNS resolution fails consistently, while everything else (Ubuntu mirrors, GitHub, etc.) works fine. I’m in India, if that matters.Because of this, I can’t install the T2 kernel, and as expected internal keyboard, trackpad and Wi-Fi don’t work on Ubuntu 22.04 or Fedora (both tested).Things I’ve already tried:•Ubuntu 22.04 and Fedora 43  •IPv4-only / IPv6-only  •Different DNS servers  •GitHub-hosted repos (apple-bce installs fine, but there’s no T2 kernel or applespi packages there)  •Verified general network/DNS works normally.At this point I’m stuck purely because I can’t access the T2Linux repo.So I wanted to ask:•Is there any mirror of apt.t2linux.org?  •Or an alternative repo / static archive for the linux-t2 kernel and related drivers?  •Or is this repo known to be blocked or unreachable from certain regions/ISPs?I’m totally fine doing a manual install (dpkg) if that’s the only way — I just need access to the actual packages.Any pointers would be really appreciated.Thanks!
Finally landed to fedora workstation Finally landed to fedora workstationu/aquibjawedio•19 days agoFinally landed to fedora workstationScreenshot
I built a unused packages detector TUI for fedora I built a unused packages detector TUI for fedorau/matan-h•3 days agoI built a unused packages detector TUI for fedoraAnnouncement
What is the ? icon for? What is the ? icon for?u/briskwheel4155•1 day agoWhat is the ? icon for?Support
want to match blur want to match bluru/KimiNoJohn_31•3 days agowant to match blurSupport
Always coming back to minimal "Fedora Everything". Distrohopping must end now! Always coming back to minimal "Fedora Everything". Distrohopping must end now!u/Medical_Divide_7191•20 days agoAlways coming back to minimal "Fedora Everything". Distrohopping must end now!Discussion
When working outside, this is my setup—how about yours? 🥳 When working outside, this is my setup—how about yours? 🥳u/xandrosman•13 days agoWhen working outside, this is my setup—how about yours? 🥳Screenshot
Fedora 43 installation fails Fedora 43 installation failsu/adabreug94•6 days agoFedora 43 installation failsDiscussionFedora 43 (versión KDE) no se instala en:Placa base: MSI MPG X-870E Carbon WiFiCPU: AMD Ryzen 9 9950X (with integrated graphics)GPU: no dedicatedSSD: Samsung 9100 PRO (2 TB)RAM: DDR5 2x32 GB a 6000 MHz CorsairHe intentado arrancar en vivo desde un USB 3.0 preparado con Rufus, usando tanto el modo ISO como el modo DD, pero ninguno funcionó. Me aparece este error:amdgpu 0000:77:00.0: la sonda con el controlador amdgpu falló con el error -22Y luego, algún servicio de mapeo de unidades bloquea toda la instalación durante un par de minutos, hasta que los registros muestran que se están realizando otras operaciones, y finalmente aparece la pantalla de Plymouth después de un par de minutos.Anteriormente, he tenido arranque dual con Fedora, OpenSuse, Ubuntu y algunos otros, además de Windows, y nunca una instalación había tardado tanto en interactuar con el instalador. Me temo que obtengo un rendimiento pésimo en hardware de gama alta si completo la instalación. ¿Algún consejo?
Safest way to dual boot Fedora 43 on Surface Laptop 4 (AMD Version). Safest way to dual boot Fedora 43 on Surface Laptop 4 (AMD Version).u/miztersweven•10 hr. agoSafest way to dual boot Fedora 43 on Surface Laptop 4 (AMD Version).SupportI want to dual boot Fedora 43 on my surface laptop 4. I need to dual boot from the internal ssd.What's the safest way to not damage the old windows partition, that I can switch between both OS without problems or risks to damage the other one?Are there surface specific things I need to know when dual booting Fedora 43?Thanks in advance!
Need Times New Roman Need Times New Romanu/digitalbrainmelt•2 days agoNeed Times New RomanSupportI've been using Fedora for a while now and I'm back in college and they ask that I use Times New Roman.  I still have my windows install on another drive and I was wondering if it's legal to just copy the font files over to linux and use them for college? It's my own copy of windows that I purchased a license for, I made my pc.
Installed fedora gnome and love it,but wanna try out kde too,I asked chatgpt and it said I could install it,but should I install kde iso and then boot it and remove gnome or should I use double? Installed fedora gnome and love it,but wanna try out kde too,I asked chatgpt and it said I could install it,but should I install kde iso and then boot it and remove gnome or should I use double?u/MediumDrawing247•6 days agoInstalled fedora gnome and love it,but wanna try out kde too,I asked chatgpt and it said I could install it,but should I install kde iso and then boot it and remove gnome or should I use double?Discussion
Where shoukd I install steam from? Where shoukd I install steam from?u/Amerwair_Studios•6 days agoWhere shoukd I install steam from?SupportI know this is probably a stupid question but theres flatpack and GNOME software manager right? Flatpack is better i think?EDIT: This is solved.
Would you recommend Fedora Workstation to a beginner-intermediate user? Would you recommend Fedora Workstation to a beginner-intermediate user?u/Disastrous_Snow_7706•3 days agoWould you recommend Fedora Workstation to a beginner-intermediate user?SupportI've been using Linux for like 3 4 months now. I got tired of Plasma and Cinnamon and I want GNOME because it looks amazing and, for me at least, I consider it being more fluid. I have three options now. Pop_OS! (which I already used in the past before going to Mint), Fedora Workstation and OpenSUSE. I want my system to be solid, but very beautiful and private (I'm deep into the privacy rabbit hole, but Tails OS is just not for me). I also want to stop distro hopping so I need a distro that will be there for years with as less as possible issues. Would you recommend me this distro?
Fedora failing to boot after attempting to update to from 42 to 43 Fedora failing to boot after attempting to update to from 42 to 43u/Intelol339•5 days agoFedora failing to boot after attempting to update to from 42 to 43Support
COSMIC Atomic appreciation post COSMIC Atomic appreciation post[deleted]•3 days agoCOSMIC Atomic appreciation postDiscussionHey guys,I just wanted to express my gratitude for the devs in charge of Fedora COSMIC Atomic.I've found my home after a long search. The perfect combination I did not know existed - great job! So far, seven successfully configured laptops running with ease.Secure, minimal with no bloat (please keep it like this) and blazing fast.There are only four questions that I have:is COSMIC being updated rolling like the KDE version?how long in average do the COSMIC updates lag in comparison to Pop!_OS?how many maintainers/devs are working on COSMIC Atomic?does auto-update work and how do you enable it?Great job people! You will get plenty of new users very soon!Thank you!
Quitting Fedora Quitting Fedorau/Ok-Abbreviations9899•11 hr. agoQuitting FedoraSupportI wanna preface this with, maybe i am just dumb, i am also not super into OS, i originally just wanted to switch out of windows, to linux, liked Fedora the best and switched.However i have always had problems with Fedora, but now they are increasing.First it was right at the beginning, if sometimes i left the computer alone and it went to sleep, sometimes, only sometimes, it never woke up and i had to reboot it.Then i dont remember when but at some point i started to have crashes, like if a lot was opened, like the broweser with a bunch of tabs, music, sometimes other simple apps like vscode or obsidian, and then i would open a game from Heroic Games Launcher for example and instead of managing the load, or whatever, my pc would simply freze.The screen simply freezed and i try to wait 1 5 10m and i just had to reboot it.But now its even worse, sometimes yes i have some apps open but not even any game or anything, and i am on the broswer and especially for example in insta for some reason, sometimes again my computer just frezees, for quite a while, it returns most of the time, after a minute or so and then shows the Web broswer not responding message, but like the freezing is so annoying.Again maybe i am just dumb, and this could be fixed, someway, but i dont really have time to dedicate to this rn. I just need my computer to work. Also my computer is like mid range so its not the specs.I am gonna try and switch to windows again just because even tho i dont like it, it works for the simple things i want at the moment.In the future i will try to comeback and even solve this issues if i can, but yeah.If anyone knows if there is simple fixes i could try i would happily do so cause i also dont want to have the work to have to reinstall everything.
MediaTek MT7921e Wi-Fi randomly stops responding, requires reboot (driver own failed / chip reset failed) on fedora and win11 MediaTek MT7921e Wi-Fi randomly stops responding, requires reboot (driver own failed / chip reset failed) on fedora and win11u/No-Room-2329•6 days agoMediaTek MT7921e Wi-Fi randomly stops responding, requires reboot (driver own failed / chip reset failed) on fedora and win11SupportThe MediaTek MT7921e adapter randomly stops responding after ~2–4 hours of uptime.When this happens, Wi-Fi disappears entirely until reboot.This occurs on Fedora KDE Plasma and Windows 11.KERNEL LOGS WHEN WIFI CRASHES... (FROM FEDORA)╰─❯ sudo journalctl -k -b -2 | grep -i mt7921Feb 06 21:02:21 umair-malik kernel: mt7921e 0000:04:00.0: enabling device (0000 -> 0002)Feb 06 21:02:21 umair-malik kernel: mt7921e 0000:04:00.0: ASIC revision: 79610010Feb 06 21:02:21 umair-malik kernel: mt7921e 0000:04:00.0: HW/SW Version: 0x8a108a10, Build Time: 20250625153620aFeb 06 21:02:21 umair-malik kernel: mt7921e 0000:04:00.0: WM Firmware Version: ____010000, Build Time: 20250625153703Feb 06 21:02:22 umair-malik kernel: mt7921e 0000:04:00.0 wlp4s0: renamed from wlan0Feb 06 21:03:26 umair-malik kernel: mt7921e 0000:04:00.0: driver own failedFeb 06 21:03:29 umair-malik kernel: mt7921e 0000:04:00.0: driver own failedFeb 06 21:03:31 umair-malik kernel: mt7921e 0000:04:00.0: Timeout for driver ownFeb 06 21:03:32 umair-malik kernel: mt7921e 0000:04:00.0: driver own failed... SAME THING PRINTING...Feb 06 21:03:51 umair-malik kernel: mt7921e 0000:04:00.0: chip reset failedFeb 06 21:03:54 umair-malik kernel: mt7921e 0000:04:00.0: Message 00020001 (seq 13) timeoutFeb 06 21:03:59 umair-malik kernel: mt7921e 0000:04:00.0: Message 00020001 (seq 15) timeout
GNOME remote desktop instability in fedora 43... GNOME remote desktop instability in fedora 43...u/petasisg•7 days agoGNOME remote desktop instability in fedora 43...SupportHi all,I am running a fully updated fedora 43 system, and during the last week I am facing stability problems in the gnome remote system daemon.As this is a headless server, I access it from a laptop using RDP, and the fact that the daemon is crashing is annoying.With dmesg I see these errors:[  251.129707] traps: gnome-remote-de[20257] general protection fault ip:7f0f9454151e sp:7f0f76ffb600 error:0 in libwinpr3.so.3.22.0[1151e,7f0f94530000+77000] [11958.866538] traps: gnome-remote-de[147800] general protection fault ip:7f1500b0c51e sp:7f14fa3fa600 error:0 in libwinpr3.so.3.22.0[1151e,7f1500afb000+77000] [12225.795172] traps: gnome-remote-de[149959] general protection fault ip:7f742f06151e sp:7f7419ff9600 error:0 in libwinpr3.so.3.22.0[1151e,7f742f050000+77000]How can I debug this further/find the cause of it?
Screen Share pop up no longer happens Screen Share pop up no longer happensu/CatsGoMooz•13 hr. agoScreen Share pop up no longer happensSupportRecently updated my desktop running Fedora 43 and now I no longer get the pop up for screen sharing. This is causing me to be unable to record screen in OBS etc. Oddly enough my server & laptop also running Fedora 43 are fine. Would anyone know why this is occurring? Is this a known bug?
Why Buy New? Why Buy New?u/coredutch•2 days agoWhy Buy New?DiscussionFedora running on a ThinkpadL13 I bought for $175.00. Someone dropped it, scuffs and a small crack below the keyboard, but man this things works so well. Why buy new? I bought a Samsung GalaxyBook 5 Pro and could not get the speakers to work... ugh. Cracked Thinkpad runs like a champ.
Will my camera work with my laptop Will my camera work with my laptop[deleted]•6 days agoWill my camera work with my laptopSupportHi, i have a laptop with fedora (workstation). And everything has worked great so far except the camera it just doesn't work. I ran lsusb and the camera didnt show up. My laptop is the (HP HP EliteBook 840 G8 Notebook)I am really new to Linux and fedora so i might be doing something wrong.
Am i missing something? Am i missing something?u/Ok-Lecture2998•17 days agoAm i missing something?DiscussionIt's been 2 months or so since i left windows and after a week of distro hopping i ended up in fedora. I am a very tech iliterate guy, not scared of using the terminam but i dont know anything about programming and things like that, i play games and watch youtube, i just followed some guide i found here to install media codecs and that stuff. To this day i've no problems at all, and thats what confuses me, everytime i see people talk about linux they always talk about how "linux isnt for the averge user" and that you have to do a lot stuff to maintain it or learining linux, i really dont care about that stuff, i just want to use my pc so i feel like im doing something wrong
Fedora 43.0 KDE Plasma Issues - ASUS Laptop Fedora 43.0 KDE Plasma Issues - ASUS Laptopu/Affectionate-Tax2688•7 days agoFedora 43.0 KDE Plasma Issues - ASUS LaptopSupportI am running the above on an ASUS Zenbook 14 and I am hitting a couple of issues.  I am new to Linux so have been using Chat GPT to help me and have changed various settings but I am still getting issues.The first one is that after booting the keyboard backlight pulses, like a slow pulse on and off.  It does seem to be intermittent but I have had no luckThe second is when I have left the laptop overnight on sleep the login wallpaper has disappeared, but it will let me enter my password but nothing happens when I press enter.  If I click 'switch user', the wallpaper reappears and I can login but then the screen just goes black and I have to do a hard reset with the power switchAny help is greatly appreciated as I am pulling my hair out with this
Gnome material you theming Gnome material you themingu/Unusual_Solution4354•7 days agoGnome material you themingDiscussionGnome material you themingr/gnome•7 days agoGnome material you themingHello. Are there any similar extensions to the material-you-colors extension for Gnome? And something that would work with dynamic wallpapers? The extension doesn't always detect colors correctly.5upvotes·4comments
Fedora 42 -> 43 is a clusterf*ck... stick with 42. Fedora 42 -> 43 is a clusterf*ck... stick with 42.u/eclipse_extra•13 hr. agoFedora 42 -> 43 is a clusterf*ck... stick with 42.DiscussionHi guys. I succumbed to the constant reminders and upgraded to 43, thinking that after more than a quarter, things would have settled.Boy. Was I wrong.Gnome 45 is probably the main culprit. Pipewire/wireplumber is borked. MS teams/Google Meet calls uses both monitor speakers and lineout at the same time.I'm not mad. I knew this could happen. Should have waited a full 9 months.So if you are a windows refugee, use 42!Peace!
"you're probably wondering how i ended up here" ahh "you're probably wondering how i ended up here" ahhu/Exotic-Deal6832•14 hr. ago"you're probably wondering how i ended up here" ahhSupport
Should I bother with proprietary Nvidia drivers? Should I bother with proprietary Nvidia drivers?u/FEDERALRESERVECOIN•8 days agoShould I bother with proprietary Nvidia drivers?DiscussionI’ve got a 2018 Razer Blade 15” that’s been a great machine, just a little long in the tooth now. I’ve clean installed fedora 43 after distro/DE hopping a bit (fedora, pop, cachy, openSUSE) and I’m debating if I should even bother installing and signing the proprietary nvidia drivers.The card is a gtx 1060 mobile, so I’m locked into the older 580 driver version. I don’t play any games on there, it’s now just a simple internet/email/streaming tool. The integrated graphics have handled all DEs with no problems thus far.Are there anything im missing just leaving the nouveau drivers in place on the discrete card?
Current Bazzite user, should I just use Fedora? Current Bazzite user, should I just use Fedora?u/VesperLynn•6 days agoCurrent Bazzite user, should I just use Fedora?DiscussionI’ve been using Bazzite for the last year and have overall been happy. Now that I’ve learned a bit more, there are some nitpicks I’ve developed with how certain things work (or don’t work but should according to documentation on other distros.)I have a pretty good grasp on how Bazzite works, that it’s based on silverblue, how it is immutable and how to layer things etc.Really all I do on my computer is game and browse the web. Almost my entire library is on steam and I don’t have any interest in using the included game launchers or pre-installed gaming utilities. I don’t particularly care for the Bazaar, either.From my understanding, the view on these gaming focused distros are that they’re great for beginners transitioning from windows but can sometimes hold one back, and some of the tweaks from things like CachyOS can be set up on Fedora as well.So anyway, should I just head upstream to the source?
HELP! Fedora 43 won’t boot after resizing LUKS2 partition – stuck at “Loading initial ramdisk…” HELP! Fedora 43 won’t boot after resizing LUKS2 partition – stuck at “Loading initial ramdisk…”u/A_ChocolateFrog•7 days agoHELP! Fedora 43 won’t boot after resizing LUKS2 partition – stuck at “Loading initial ramdisk…”SupportHi all, I’m still very new to Linux. I dual-boot Windows 11 and Fedora 43 on the same NVMe SSD and had no problems until I tried to grow Fedora’s encrypted partition.I shrunk Windows C and booted a Fedora-live USB. Then I resized Fedora with GParted. I also deleted a 2 GB file inside Fedora to make sure the LUKS2 partition was adjacent to the unallocated space (no warning was flared; this shouldn't be the problem).I ran into booting problems trying to boot Fedora through GRUB. Like many people, I am hung at "Loading initial ramdisk…". It never asks for a passphrase. Initially, it simply black-screened. I tried "nomodeset" and now it just gets stuck. After about 10 seconds, it gets timed out and goes into emergency mode, and my "root account is locked."What I've tried so far to get to this step:Converted the LUKS header to PBKDF2 (so GRUB can unlock it).Confirmed the LUKS UUID with blkid; it matches the value in the cryptdevice= parameterRebuilt the initramfs (dracut -f / mkinitcpio -P) several times, with and without encrypt, sd-encrypt, and other hooksMounted every Btrfs sub-volume from a live USB (@, home, etc.) to rule out missing dataIf I remove cryptdevice= entirely, the error appears sooner, so I think the container never opens or opens under a different namePerformed a repair attempt with pacstrap, but it had no effect on the issueSecure boot is disabled I desperately need this disk for an important school project I've spent months on. I’d greatly appreciate any guidance on how I can restore the passphrase prompt. It would be great if I don't resort to wiping my disk. Please lmk if you need any other information/photos.
Which browser should i use? Which browser should i use?u/Key_Raisin8905•7 days agoWhich browser should i use?DiscussionI just installed fedora 43 a few days ago, i come from windows 10. I used to use brave browser but in fedora 43 workstation, gnome wayland. When i install brave it has different font style every page i go to and its not consistent like win 10 or even sharp for that matter. And the feature i use the most like trackpad gesture not all of it are supported. You guys know any other browser than brave besides firfox ofcourse or know how to slove my prob would be nice. Thank you for reading till here
Fedora workstation 43, Discord: How to stop the application from showing the message "New audio device detected Discord has detected a new audio output device named (not attached or connected to my device)! Do you want to switch to it? Fedora workstation 43, Discord: How to stop the application from showing the message "New audio device detected Discord has detected a new audio output device named (not attached or connected to my device)! Do you want to switch to it?u/Sad_UnpaidBullshit•1 day agoFedora workstation 43, Discord: How to stop the application from showing the message "New audio device detected Discord has detected a new audio output device named (not attached or connected to my device)! Do you want to switch to it?Support
Fedora is the best. Fedora is the best.u/PlZZAEnjoyer•23 days agoFedora is the best.DiscussionI started my Linux journey with Ubuntu and it was great.But boy, was it boring. Everything... just worked.I heard of distro hopping and I started trying other distros but after landing on Fedora, I think I am settling here.Some other distros I find myself tweaking and doing too much, when things break too much, and other distros are just so stagnant and bland.But Fedora is perfect. Updates are frequent and exciting. Things do not just break for no reason. It feels incredibly modern from both a UI and performance perspective. I already cannot wait for Fedora 44 from 43. I enjoy this 6 month release cycle.Once Fedora, always Fedora?
some popular and useful copr projects! some popular and useful copr projects!u/DayInfinite8322•7 days agosome popular and useful copr projects!Discussionsuggest some copr projects that you are using, and helpful to others that they dont know.
Fedora froze and doesn't boot anymore (amdgpu -22 error) Fedora froze and doesn't boot anymore (amdgpu -22 error)u/lnklsm•8 days agoFedora froze and doesn't boot anymore (amdgpu -22 error)Support
What even is this? Since when do we have THIS type of auth? What even is this? Since when do we have THIS type of auth?u/PlanttDaMinecraftGuy•2 days agoWhat even is this? Since when do we have THIS type of auth?Discussion
Brightness slider changes brightness of my keyboard display instead of my laptop display. Brightness slider changes brightness of my keyboard display instead of my laptop display.u/avocado-killer•7 days agoBrightness slider changes brightness of my keyboard display instead of my laptop display.Support
Fedora not as smooth as Windows Fedora not as smooth as Windowsu/Secure_Tip8116•7 days agoFedora not as smooth as WindowsSupportHi everyone :)I recently switched from Windows to Fedora.After installing some software and playing around with the new OS, something about the smoothness feels off. It's not that it's laggy or taking time to load things, but rather, the mouse movements, keyboard typing and the overall UX/UI just doesn't feel as smooth as it was on Windows. The closest I can describe it is sort of like the experience you'd get when interacting with a VM/remote desktop, just not as bad as that (but along that scale so to speak).Maybe I did something wrong or missed a step, so if anyone has suggestions I'd love to here.The specifics:Hardware Information:- Hardware Model: Lenovo ThinkPad P15s Gen 2i- Memory: 32.0 GiB- Processor: 11th Gen Intel® Core™ i7-1165G7 × 8- Graphics: Intel® Iris® Xe Graphics (TGL GT2)- Graphics 1: NVIDIA T500- Disk Capacity: 1.0 TBSoftware Information- Firmware Version: N34ET69W (1.69 )- OS Name: Fedora Linux 43 (Workstation Edition)- OS Build: (null)- OS Type: 64-bit- GNOME Version: 49- Windowing System: Wayland- Kernel Version: Linux 6.18.8-200.fc43.x86_64I initially followed this excellent guide to setup Fedora with Full Disk Encryption, Snapshot and Snapper:https://sysguides.com/install-fedora-42-with-full-disk-encryption-snapshot-and-rollback-supportSince my laptop comes with an `NVIDIA T500` GPU, I followed this guide to install the relevant drivers:https://github.com/Comprehensive-Wall28/Nvidia-Fedora-Guide$ nvidia-smi...NVIDIA-SMI 580.119.02 Driver Version: 580.119.02 CUDA Version: 13.0...Some more information if relevant:Renderer:$ glxinfo | grep -E "OpenGL vendor|OpenGL renderer"OpenGL vendor string: IntelOpenGL renderer string: Mesa Intel(R) Iris(R) Xe Graphics (TGL GT2)I'm not using any external monitors, just the laptop.I set the scale to 125% since 100% was too small.Monitor details:$ edid-decode < /sys/class/drm/card1-eDP-1/edid...Block 0, Base EDID:EDID Structure Version & Revision: 1.4Vendor & Product Identification:Manufacturer: BOEModel: 2242Made in: week 1 of 2019Basic Display Parameters & Features:Digital displayBits per primary color channel: 8DisplayPort interfaceMaximum image size: 34 cm x 19 cmGamma: 2.20Supported color formats: RGB 4:4:4First detailed timing includes the native pixel format and preferred refresh rateDisplay supports continuous frequenciesColor Characteristics:Red : 0.5869, 0.3671Green: 0.3496, 0.5839Blue : 0.1640, 0.1367White: 0.3134, 0.3291Established Timings I & II: noneStandard Timings: noneDetailed Timing Descriptors:DTD 1: 1920x1080 60.000000 Hz 16:9 68.400 kHz 150.480000 MHz (344 mm x 194 mm)Hfront 48 Hsync 32 Hback 200 Hpol PVfront 3 Vsync 6 Vback 51 Vpol NManufacturer-Specified Display Descriptor (0x00): 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 1a '................'Alphanumeric Data String: 'BOE CQ'Alphanumeric Data String: 'NV156FHM-T07'Checksum: 0xa4$ gsettings get org.gnome.mutter experimental-features['scale-monitor-framebuffer', 'xwayland-native-scaling']Enabled extensions:$ gnome-extensions list --enabledjust-perfection-desktop@just-perfectiondash-to-dock@micxgx.gmail.comappindicatorsupport@rgcjonas.gmail.comauto-move-windows@gnome-shell-extensions.gcampax.github.combackground-logo@fedorahosted.org
Fedora + Sway = Heaven on Earth... Fedora + Sway = Heaven on Earth...u/desperate-1•21 days agoFedora + Sway = Heaven on Earth...Screenshot
Help with Integrated graphics Help with Integrated graphicsu/JwustGiveMeAName•2 days agoHelp with Integrated graphicsSupport
5 days in after accidentally moving to Fedora full time. 5 days in after accidentally moving to Fedora full time.u/BoredGamer1385•4 days ago5 days in after accidentally moving to Fedora full time.Discussion5 days ago I posted on here trying to recover my windows partition because I accidentally installed Fedora KDE Plasma on the wrong drive.I have to say, no regrets. Nothing is broken, nothing has given me problems that were not resolvable with just a little research.I had tried various flavors 5+ years ago and was never happy with it. I don't think I ever tried Fedora, but I don't remember it ever being on my radar. Here are a few things that I was worried about for no reason, and a few things that have given me problems.Installing things - Having to run dnf install on rpmfusion to make some software available.. I kept reading how nvidia drivers were an issue.. This did require some looking up to figure out how, but installing nvidia drivers, steam, discord, etc while not as easy as on Windows, not a problem. (thought I don't understand why flatpak is the only option by default and then everywhere you read it says don't use it.. seems counter intuitive.. )Power Management - I had some issues with it not waking up (secure boot/nvidia drivers) and I still feel like it sometimes just ignores the settings and doesn't go to sleep, but minor issue.I keep thinking I broke something when I open up the brave browser and it has a different background ;) Brave seems like a great browser.I DO feel like the fonts don't look as good, but not a huge difference... and something I will continue to try to tweak.I've only played a few games, but so far NONE of them seem to have performance issues or run differently. With no dual boot I can't do any comparisons, but not ONCE have I had an issue and though, man, I wish I could boot into Windows to do this.
New to Fedora, and have a couple of questions New to Fedora, and have a couple of questionsu/Ateir_•7 days agoNew to Fedora, and have a couple of questionsSupportJust for background, I've been dual booting Mint and Windows for a year or so, until I this week, brilliantly managed to delete my boot files. (Definitely user error)However, I've taken this as an opportunity to try Fedora. And I must say, the installation process was the best I've had to date.Now for my two questions.Can I get a clean install of Firefox somehow? Both the dnf package and flatpack appears to come with some stuff pre-configured. And I've had some stability issues, so I want a clean installation for troubleshooting (also just dislike unknown parameters in general)My secondary drive, which I've just formatted, and plan to fill with steam games. Appear to be showing up as a removeable drive? (It also has to be re-added after each boot it seems)Don't know how to explain any better, but I've attached some pictures. It's also mounted under /media/"computer"/ and I had to change permissions on it (as /"computer"/ requires root?) for Steam to even recognize it's existence. Have I mounted it wrong? Or what is the deal?
Safe to update at same time? Safe to update at same time?u/ferfykins•8 days agoSafe to update at same time?Supportdnf and flatpak? ty guys
Wanna switch to fedora Wanna switch to fedorau/Agreeable-Drawer5081•8 days agoWanna switch to fedoraSupportI am thinking of switching to Fedora at some point (I use mint currently since I just left windows about a week ago) and I have a gaming laptop. What version of fedora would be best for it?
How do I optimize laptop for efficiency? How do I optimize laptop for efficiency?u/its-_-my-_-nickname•5 days agoHow do I optimize laptop for efficiency?DiscussionHey I recently bought MSI Katana with r 7 8845hs and rtx 4060. I dual booted it with fedora 43 and first I noticed that fans are working all the time on fedora and it tends to heat in light work. It doesn't happen on windows and moreover I can turn on Hybrid graphics on windows whereas it seems impossible to do on Linux (tried to disable nvidia GPU completely and still failed).When I checked what was happening in htop it was showing that processor usage was raised to nearly 100% on all cores from time to time by kernel and system deamons (or how those called) and some light apps like htop would be used by nearly 100% on 1 thread.My questions to you - is it possible to optimize battery life and efficiency (not running an Nvidia GPU all the time and processor not using 100%) on new hardware for light work? Is it possible to run hybryd GPU?
Updated Fedora Wallpaper Updated Fedora Wallpaperu/sachesi•9 days agoUpdated Fedora WallpaperDiscussion
Fedora : Ethic and safe choice as a EU citizen ? Fedora : Ethic and safe choice as a EU citizen ?u/Amarok45•20 days agoFedora : Ethic and safe choice as a EU citizen ?DiscussionHello dear fellow Linux users.First of all, I want to say that I've been using Fedora, amongst other distros, for a long time, and that, after hopping from a distro to another, I filnally chose to use Fedora KDE Edition that I really like, the second one being OpenSuse Tumbleweed but for some software compatibilities matters, I kept using Fedora. The fact that it is sponsored by such companies like IBM garantees the strength of this distro, though it may introduce independence issues...As a European user, I'm puzzled with US politics nowadays and wonder if using Fedora is as secure as using a european distro. I know it's FOSS, so it may not be a problem, but who knows? The second question being about EU soveraignity... Wouldn't using an european distro be a better choice?What do you think about that and my questions?Once again, I'm not trying to troll anyone nor Fedora that I really like, I'm only puzzled...Thank you for your answers.
Can't connect to uni wifi Can't connect to uni wifiu/scullye125•7 days agoCan't connect to uni wifiSupportI'm dual-booting fedora 43 and windows 11 on my laptop for uni, but i can't connect to the wifi on fedora. my school uses cloudpath (for some reason) to install certificates. There is a linux download on the site, but it gives a tarball which extracts the files pictured. The instructions say to run the Cloudpath-x86 file, but I can't get it to run on fedora. I'd try to run it with wine, but... i cant download the packages without connecting to wifi... Not sure if this is the place to ask, but hopefully there's a way to fix this, because I don't like having to boot into win11
Fedora Wallpaper Fedora Wallpaperu/sachesi•9 days agoFedora WallpaperDiscussion
Fedora graphic issues Fedora graphic issuesu/NickkPoggers•7 days agoFedora graphic issuesSupportI just installed and i have problems with the installer, the fedora is already on my pc but if i start without quiet nomodeset on grub to launch with integrated graphics its become glitch, how i install drivers for nvidia gtx 1080? or is other problem?
Can't change audio sources Can't change audio sourcesu/DavidAstonish•5 days agoCan't change audio sourcesSupport
Degraded Performance Compared to Windows Degraded Performance Compared to Windowsu/New-Pie-8997•14 hr. agoDegraded Performance Compared to WindowsSupportHi, recent Microslop refugee here (but also ex Linux user, so I'm not completely in the dark).Finally made the switch to Fedora (GNOME) and it's been going well so far other than some minor issues I've managed to resolve myself; I've finally ran into something I'm not sure how to solve though.I don't do much gaming beside a bit of Minecraft, so I didn't really consider that in my distro choosing, but now I'm seeing far lower performance compared to Windows, and I'm not sure why.My system specs are:https://pastes.dev/pzQbRlETEpI'm running Minecraft via Prism Launcher installed as a Flatpak, and I can confirm that it does use the 4070 after toggling that setting in Prism as it lists it in the in-game debug menu.For the drivers, I'm using the proprietary Nvidia drivers from RPMFusion.I tried a simple rough performance test by making a fresh instance with all default settings (other than vSync -> off and FPS cap -> none), and logging into the same server in the same spot on both Windows and Fedora.On Windows, Vanilla was around 480-500 FPS, Fabric + Sodium was around 650-700, and I got the followingnvidia-smioutput while running MC:https://pastes.dev/OxU0dC1ZBWOn Fedora, Vanilla was around 340-350 FPS, Fabric + Sodium was around 400 (with both often dropping lower though), andnvidia-smiwas:https://pastes.dev/7cEo98Ug2WI'm happy to provide any further information ofc, just let me know (and I'm aware these are ok numbers on Fedora as well, but performance tanks for both if I do more demanding things so the near 2x is a big difference).Thank you to all who help!
CoreOS tool for drive metrics? CoreOS tool for drive metrics?u/Casper042•7 days agoCoreOS tool for drive metrics?SupportI was recommended to use SAR or similar tools to try and figure out why 1 node in a cluster seems to be eating it's boot SSD 3x faster than it's friends.But SAR and some similar tools don't exist or run on CoreOS.Anyone know what alternatives there might be?Trying to determine 2 things.Confirm that Node X is indeed writing 3x more data than it's peers.Try to determine which process or files are causing the huge increase in writes so we know where to look as far as fixing this issue.Thanks
After moving my kids computers to Fedora we are now 100% Linux in this household After moving my kids computers to Fedora we are now 100% Linux in this householdu/thunderclap82•12 days agoAfter moving my kids computers to Fedora we are now 100% Linux in this householdDiscussionAfter jumping on the Linux bandwagon a year ago, trying different distributions and becoming very comfortable with how Linux works, I settled on Fedora about three months ago.￼ I decided this weekend to move my kids Windows11 computers over to Fedora as well￼. Someone needs to teach them the importance of privacy in a world that is increasingly unconcerned with losing it. So far they seem comfortable with it, and I don't expect too much growing pains from them. They are 16 and 14. Few minor glitches but overall it went smoothly.
Screen brightness / External monitors Screen brightness / External monitorsu/manboyroy•14 hr. agoScreen brightness / External monitorsSupportHi!I just managed to install fedora yesterday and I am having fun using the system. I have some issues though and would like some help.My screen brightness won't adjust. I use a thinkpad t480s. As I remember when I finished installing or when I was running the live version the buttons for adjusting the screen still worked. Now nothing happens when I press them. I tried running the different commands online but none have worked. It almost seems like it doesn't recognize that it has a built in screen. Is this maybe related to driver issues from lenovo which I have to reinstall?Number 2 is that my external monitors don't work when I use the docking station. Is there any way to solve this?
Just moved to Fedora Just moved to Fedorau/Grouchy-Western-5757•26 days agoJust moved to FedoraDiscussionWork in IT, just moved to Fedora full time from Windows forever user, just Wow. Nothing more to be said.Really though, it's so fast, my device has never sounded quieter and the bloat is nonexistent.Good job Fedora devs, really.
Freshly Installed Fedora 43 Workstation Freshly Installed Fedora 43 Workstationu/Cee-Rye•6 days agoFreshly Installed Fedora 43 WorkstationScreenshot
Moved to Fedora 43 KDE 2 weeks ago and loving it! Moved to Fedora 43 KDE 2 weeks ago and loving it!u/Embarrassed-Bug-2011•13 days agoMoved to Fedora 43 KDE 2 weeks ago and loving it!Screenshot
Fedora compatibilty Fedora compatibiltyu/Neither_Tap50891•15 hr. agoFedora compatibiltyDiscussionhttps://www.lenovo.com/in/en/p/laptops/ideapad/ideapad-s-series/ideapad-slim-5-gen-10-16-inch-amd/83hy007fin
Positive experience with Kinoite Positive experience with Kinoiteu/lynniam•2 days agoPositive experience with KinoiteDiscussionI've been running Fedora Kinoite for a few weeks on a Beelink mini-pc w/Intel N100(x4), 16GiB Ram, and it's been a totally positive experience. I bought it specifically for this use.I've used other distros (Pop, Elementary, Mate) on old laptops, mainly for fun, on devices I didn't use much. This is for my main home computer, which I use a lot for personal/work/streaming. My main office/work computer is Windows.I chose an immutable distro because I had a habit of going into the system on those laptops to make changes and would mess things up. This was advertised as fairly complete as-is, and the option to revert to the previous system version was there if anything got broken. I'm also not as obsessed with customization as I used to be, and KDE gives enough options for my taste.Besides an early unforced error that was easy to fix, there have been zero issues. Some happy surprises were that a BrosTrend wifi adapter that wasn't supposed to work on Fedora (because of no drivers) did work, probably because I didn't go with secure boot. I was also able to get a pair of Apple AirPods to connect via bluetooth with a simple change.I'm sharing this because so many of the posts you see are from people with problems, and that's surely a minority. A big thank you to the devs who support projects like this.
Prevent gnome-software from loading at startup Prevent gnome-software from loading at startupu/Present-Area3862•7 days agoPrevent gnome-software from loading at startupSupportPrevent gnome-software from loading at startupr/gnome•7 days agoPrevent gnome-software from loading at startupHello guys,I'm currently trying to save as much RAM as I can out of my Fedora 43 Workstation installation. I have an 8 GB laptop, which can be pretty limiting, and I would like to save the 100-200mb that gnome-software takes from startup. I have already tried several methods. For example:mkdir -p ~/.config/autostartcp /etc/xdg/autostart/org.gnome.Software.desktop ~/.config/autostart/echo "Hidden=true" >> ~/.config/autostart/org.gnome.Software.desktoporsystemctl --user stop gnome-software-service.servicesystemctl --user mask gnome-software-service.serviceandgsettings setorg.gnome.softwaredownload-updates falsegsettings setorg.gnome.softwaredownload-updates-notify falseNothing worked and I have run out of ideas. Am I missing something?6upvotes·13comments
Crazy how good Fedora is as a Desktop OS. Crazy how good Fedora is as a Desktop OS.u/TheNameIsAsFollows•9 days agoCrazy how good Fedora is as a Desktop OS.DiscussionI started studying for the RHCSA exam (Red Hat) and naturally landed on using Fedora to practice using Linux terminal and commands. Always had this irrational fear of ssh-ing, navigating and using commands on linux but I had to bite the bullet if I want to be a proper DevOps Engineer. So I dual booted Fedora and went in raw like nature intended.2-3 weeks later and Fedora is now officially my default OS. I haven't even booted into windows once since installing Fedora. It was originally supposed to be just a testing ground for me and to run KVM with rhel images. Wish I gave linux a proper shot a lot sooner.I tried using linux mint like 5-6 years ago and hated it so much that I went back to windows. But that was because I didn't bother to learn and understand anything about linux. My mentality was that if it didn't work the windows way I hated it.
Finally switched to Fedora KDE—Windows latest updates were the final straw and broke my computer. What a breath of fresh air Finally switched to Fedora KDE—Windows latest updates were the final straw and broke my computer. What a breath of fresh airu/Ok-Way-1595•1 mo. agoFinally switched to Fedora KDE—Windows latest updates were the final straw and broke my computer. What a breath of fresh airDiscussionafter the october and the latest windows updates my computer literally became unusable.- the search doesn't load anymore on the menu- file explorer is completely broken- preview mode stopped workingI don't know wtf the devs are doing at microsoft but I'm on fedora kde now and I can't even express into words how much better it is and I don't understand how I never did this before
dont show grub menu on boot dont show grub menu on bootu/DayInfinite8322•15 hr. agodont show grub menu on bootSupporti have fedora 43 installed, and during boot time it dont show grub menu, i updated kernel  i need to revert back to old kernel but grub menu not shown.i change grub configuration, where i increase timeout 5 sec to 10sec but it instead of showing grub menu it show black screen for 10 sec and then fedora boot screen.
Extremely slow guests in VMWare Workstation on Fedora 43 KDE Plasma host Extremely slow guests in VMWare Workstation on Fedora 43 KDE Plasma hostu/GeneralMajorTart•7 days agoExtremely slow guests in VMWare Workstation on Fedora 43 KDE Plasma hostSupport*SOLVED* : Solution was to move to Manjaro Linux. It's simply FAST. My God, it's full of stars! :')EDIT: I tried Linux Mint and CachyOS, both have very smooth mouse movements (live CD), but Fedora live CD stuttering A LOT, like it's heavy. So I guess something is wrong with Fedora?FINALLY MOVED TO LINUX! SUCH A BREATH OF FRESH AIR! Pardon my capslock, BUT IT'S SO GOOD! :D, so... the problem:The setup is a laptop, Intel 14700HX [HyperThreading OFF, C-States OFF, Assigned 8 Performance Cores], (with built-in gpu), extra discrete Nvidia RTX 4070, 96GB RAM (MSI), running Fedora 43 KDE Plasma 6 (Wayland), fully up to date. Installed akmod nvidia drivers as well. (Set to performance mode, not battery saver)So I have extremely slow Linux (Fedora or any dist) guests in VMWare Workstation on Fedora 43 KDE Plasma host. The mouse stuttering badly and feels very heavy. Animations stutter. RDP into it, just "forget about it". I tested installing a Windows 11 guest in this thing, the mouse is buttery smooth like native, the Windows itself is kind'a slow but "ok". Linux is just veeeeeeeeery slow.I've install openvm-tools openvm-tools-desktop in the Fedora 43 KDE Plasma 6 (Wayland) guest.I don't want to go with XORG X11 etc., because they are kind'a retiring it (Fedora) so I need this thing to be buttery smooth with Wayland.The machine isn't slow obviously, enough RAM and everything. I'm not sure what I'm doing wrong here. Am I missing something? I would think Linux guest under Linux would been fast but seems no?One thing I noticed is, the guests are using the built-in GPU instead of the Nvidia, can that be the issue here? How do I set it to use my Nvidia instead?I can deal somewhat with a half slow guest but my God, the mouse laggy stutter is horrible. Drives me nuts!I appreciate any help if you can. Thank you.Actually, I think VMWare "is" running on Nvidia? But in system monitor I see the built-in active when things happening in the VM. Strange.+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+| NVIDIA-SMI 580.119.02             Driver Version: 580.119.02     CUDA Version: 13.0     |+-----------------------------------------+------------------------+----------------------+| GPU  Name                 Persistence-M | Bus-Id          Disp.A | Volatile Uncorr. ECC || Fan  Temp   Perf          Pwr:Usage/Cap |           Memory-Usage | GPU-Util  Compute M. ||                                         |                        |               MIG M. ||=========================================+========================+======================||   0  NVIDIA GeForce RTX 4070 ...    Off |   00000000:01:00.0  On |                  N/A || N/A   56C    P8              2W /   55W |     459MiB /   8188MiB |      0%      Default ||                                         |                        |                  N/A |+-----------------------------------------+------------------------+----------------------++-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+| Processes:                                                                              ||  GPU   GI   CI              PID   Type   Process name                        GPU Memory ||        ID   ID                                                               Usage      ||=========================================================================================||    0   N/A  N/A            1986      G   /usr/bin/kwin_wayland                     2MiB ||    0   N/A  N/A            6451      G   ...share/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam          3MiB ||    0   N/A  N/A            6715      G   ./steamwebhelper                         28MiB ||    0   N/A  N/A            6752    C+G   ...am/ubuntu12_64/steamwebhelper          5MiB ||    0   N/A  N/A           11151    C+G   /usr/lib/vmware/bin/mksSandbox          311MiB |+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
Thank you to the Fedora devs Thank you to the Fedora devsu/l0rd0fthe0ni0nrings•11 days agoThank you to the Fedora devsDiscussionJust wanted to post some gratitude for the devs who make Fedora possible, I see a lot of folks are transitioning away from Windows rn and that is truly awesome & I love to see that happening, but I feel like a lot of the conversation online is "Fedora isn't doing this or that as well as.... whatever". And I just think that's the wrong mindset. Fedora is an incredible, reliable, robust, fully-featured and stable OS that is provided to the community and the world as free software, and provides Windows refugees a safe place to land, and I for one feel incredibly grateful to and thankful for the talented and intelligent developers who spend their time ensuring these powerful, valuable tools are available to the whole world. Thank you very much to the Fedora devs & open source communities in general, it seems like 2026 is going to be "the year".
Power of Linux unleashed Power of Linux unleashedu/vlad_8011•7 days agoPower of Linux unleashedDiscussionHi folks.I wanted to share my new discovery, but first some background - I got 2 ARGB stipes in my case, connected to Msi b650 Tomahawk motherboard. Instead of rainbow, I prefer static red and white light (in black case). I use open RGB to achieve that. Once set in windows 10, saved to device, it can survive total system wipe, install of any other system (windows or Linux) and keep the settings. My razer basilisk V3 however needed Razer synapse to TURN OFF the brightness, as setting any static color and keeping it after reboot (without synapse installed or launched in background) is impossible.Now the fun story begin - do you know, that fedora hibernation (I forgot to change that setting, it hibernate(?) after some time of not touching anything) reset my motherboard RGB settings to default (rainbow)? I don't know if I discovered bug, or is this some intentional behavior, but even after reboot it stayed rainbow. At least Razer mouse kept RGB off.I could not manage to display any device in open RGB on Linux (appimage) nor remove it yet from system, and I rescued with windows (dual boot) open RGB installation. After spending some years on fedora I was sure nothing can surprise me, but here it is, I was surprised :)
DaVinci Resolve Unsupported GPU Processing Mode DaVinci Resolve Unsupported GPU Processing Modeu/JokelWayne•16 hr. agoDaVinci Resolve Unsupported GPU Processing ModeSupportDaVinci Resolve Unsupported GPU Processing Moder/framework•16 hr. agoDaVinci Resolve Unsupported GPU Processing ModeI’ve got the FW12 i5 Version and got to install DaVinci Resolve on Fedora 43 with the DaVinci Helper with those fixes:github.com/H3rz3n/davinci-helperBut on startup it gives me an “Unsupported GPU Processing Mode” warning and I cant start it. This seems to be a common problem with integrated GPU’s, and the fix seems to depend on the specific model.Did anyone get Resolve to run on Fedora 43 or any other distro on the FW12?1upvote·3comments
How do you get AnyDesk to work on Fedora? How do you get AnyDesk to work on Fedora?u/Trazosz•8 days agoHow do you get AnyDesk to work on Fedora?SupportHow do you make AnyDesk work on Fedora? I already tried forcing Xorg, but my system never starts afterward, so I’m not sure if I did something wrong.Is there any way to make it work properly on Wayland, or what setup are you using to make it work?Thanks in advance.
Looking for lightweight. Looking for lightweight.u/Bearvarian•6 days agoLooking for lightweight.Discussion
Install media not being detected by laptop Install media not being detected by laptopu/Unable_Tangelo7616•16 hr. agoInstall media not being detected by laptopSupportA while ago I asked if someone could help me with my thinkpad t570 not detecting the fedora install usb, I was then asked if other install media was detected and or working on the laptop which I hadn’t tried. I tried arch, ubuntu and mint and all of them worked and were installed it’s just the fedora install USB that is not working, tha laptop detects it but wont boot into it. It will flash a black screen and then go back to the boot menu.
Using Apps as appimage! Using Apps as appimage!u/DayInfinite8322•7 days agoUsing Apps as appimage!Supportanybody using appimage for their apps?what are apps you use as appimage?how appimages are different from rpm or flatpaks?any major performance difference between in these three?
*sniff* *sniff* *sigh*... Home~ *sniff* *sniff* *sigh*... Home~u/Hiro018•27 days ago*sniff* *sniff* *sigh*... Home~Screenshot
So I am new to fedora and I want to know what can I learn so I don't break stuff at random. So I am new to fedora and I want to know what can I learn so I don't break stuff at random.u/Sin_Dailys•4 days agoSo I am new to fedora and I want to know what can I learn so I don't break stuff at random.DiscussionI also heard about this thing that you can do where you can revert back to the previous state ( the state before the update) in case an update breaks something. How can I do that, how can I learn that?Btw, really liking it so far. Nothing to worry about, but customising means doing stuff that might break so learning some things seems a good way to go.Thank you for your time everyone.
Atomic rebasing? Atomic rebasing?u/ffrkAnonymous•7 days agoAtomic rebasing?SupportI've been trying out different fedora atomic distros. Aside from the warnings that gnome and KDE don't play nice, the docs say I can rebase-switch from one to another.Can I switch between a bunch of them without needing to rebase each time? I think that's whatostree admin pindoes?Any suggestions if I like some features of one that are not available in another? Would that be the situation torpm-ostree rebase?
gdebi altranative for fedora gdebi altranative for fedorau/DayInfinite8322•8 days agogdebi altranative for fedoraSupportany gdebi altranative for fedora, where i can remove apps that dont show in software centre, like some cli tools.because i dont know extact package name for removing them from terminal.
Fedora 42 -> 43 updates have been disasterous Fedora 42 -> 43 updates have been disasterousu/amdrke•1 mo. agoFedora 42 -> 43 updates have been disasterousDiscussionHi all,Recent Linux adopter here since about July last year, and after some initial distrohopping I was another one that ended up with Fedora because it just works, is very easy to adapt to coming from Windows OS and can do almost everything that I need it to do.Overall, the experience has been very lovely and has made sitting at my PC fun again. I also ended up building a homeserver/retro emulator station, and apart from 1 partition that is still on Windows because of Simracing (nvsurround, many peripherals, ... ) everything in my house is now running Linux.My laptop on Fedora 42 Gnome and the rest is all on Fedora 42 KDE.When I saw Fedora 43 was out I got a bit nervous because this is one of the few things I didn't have to do yet but since there are popups and notifications in the GUI applications like Discover and Software I figured it would be pretty straight forward.But even a couple of months into the release of 43, was I completely wrong...FIrst the Gnome update: Installed the update as it asked, fully update packages and then do the upgradeWhat ended up happening: System rebooted and got stuck on a black screen with a blinking cursor with only access to TTY and that's it.The system was in completely broken state with Fedora 43 installed but everything package was was still on fc42. Kernel running was 42. DNF upgrades checked 42 repos, ...This took me hours to fix.For the server  running KDE Plasma I was more careful after this experience so I double checked the documentation: For KDE Fedora, the Fedora docs recommends not using the CLI but using the Discover GUI to do the update.Can't get more clearer than this right, so this must be the way....Nope! Almost the exact same thing happened.Did the update of the packages, let Discover go into the full upgrade, and reboot.This time I at least got back in my desktop manager and OS without issue, but let's do a quick check with uname -r.And the kernel was still on 6.18.xxxx.fc42, just like 100s and 100s of packages.repolist was also still stuck on 42, ...This luckily took loads less time to fix but still, another disaster.I ended up Google-ing these issues and they have been known for weeks and months but still are there in the installers, as well as abusing my ChatGPT friend for random suggestions that might work.Must say I have been pretty dissappointing with this entire debacle, and I think if we we want at some point for it to be the year of Linux, having your system get bricked (as good as for a normal user) by doing an update isn't really something we want to have out there if you want to start convincing people to make the swap.Anyway. my weekend and rant over, anyone got bitten by these updates??
I made a Linux port of Thermalright's LCD Control Center (TRCC) - looking for testers! I made a Linux port of Thermalright's LCD Control Center (TRCC) - looking for testers!u/Senior-Painter2195•7 days agoI made a Linux port of Thermalright's LCD Control Center (TRCC) - looking for testers!SupportI made a Linux port of Thermalright's LCD Control Center (TRCC) - looking for testers!r/Thermalright•7 days agoI made a Linux port of Thermalright's LCD Control Center (TRCC) - looking for testers!Hey everyone!I got tired of booting into Windows just to customize my Thermalright LCD cooler, so I built a native Linux port of the TRCC software. It's calledthermalright-trcc-linuxand it's now feature-complete with the Windows version.Supported devices:Frozen Warframe / Warframe SEFrozen Vision V2 / Core Vision / Elite VisionFrozen Horizon PRO / Magic PROLC1 / LC2 / LC3 / LC5 (AIO pump heads)AK120 / AX120 / PA120 DigitalWonder Vision (CZTV)Features:Full GUI matching the Windows appLocal themes + cloud theme downloadsVideo/GIF playback on the LCDSystem info overlay (CPU/GPU temps, usage, etc.)Screen mirroring (cast a region of your desktop to the LCD)Theme editor with masks and overlaysMulti-resolution support (240x240, 320x320, 480x480, 640x480)Requirements:Python 3.9+PyQt6sg3_utils (for SCSI communication)It's been tested on Fedora but should work on any distro. I only have a 320x320 device, so I'd love help testing other resolutions/models.GitHub:https://github.com/Lexonight1/thermalright-trcc-linuxLet me know if you run into any issues or have feature requests!17upvotes·16comments
Fedora 43 KDE desktop bugs or glitches Fedora 43 KDE desktop bugs or glitchesu/NervousAlien55•4 days agoFedora 43 KDE desktop bugs or glitchesSupport
Deperto: A GNOME Extension for XFCE-style Zoom (Super + Scroll) Deperto: A GNOME Extension for XFCE-style Zoom (Super + Scroll)u/denbarb•7 days agoDeperto: A GNOME Extension for XFCE-style Zoom (Super + Scroll)AnnouncementDeperto: A GNOME Extension for XFCE-style Zoom (Super + Scroll)r/gnome•10 days agoDeperto: A GNOME Extension for XFCE-style Zoom (Super + Scroll)AVAILABLE ON GNOME EXTENSIONS WEBSITE:https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/9256/deperto-zoom-by-scroll/[Update] Deperto: XFCE-style "Zoom by Scroll" for GNOME (Now with custom shortcuts!)If you've ever migrated from XFCE or just hate reading tiny text on a high-DPI monitor, you probably miss the ability to just hold a key and scroll to zoom in exactly where you are looking.So I built Deperto.What it does:It takes the native GNOME magnifier and forces it to behave. It sets the tracking mode to "proportional" (so the zoom follows your cursor, not the center of the screen) and binds it to a modifier key + Scroll.Point your mouse at something interesting.Hold the key.Scroll wheel up.ENHANCE.One tiny detail:In standard GNOME,Super + Scrollusually switches workspaces.This extension hijacks that. We stole it. It's ours now. I consider this a feature, not a bug.(Note: That's not strictly true anymore with the new update, but I kept it because I like the joke.)✨ UPDATE: What's New?Based on feedback, I've just pushed a big update:Customizable Shortcuts:You are no longer locked to the Super key. You can now choose Alt, Ctrl+Alt, Shift+Super, and others in the extension preferences.Workspace Switching Logic:We don't just "steal" the shortcut anymore; we swap it. If you set Zoom to Super + Scroll, the extension automatically maps Alt + Scroll to switch workspaces (and vice versa).UPDATE 2Quick update on theDepertoextension. I realized that hijackingSuper + Scrollwas basically a declaration of war against GNOME’s workspace switching.To keep the peace (and your sanity), I’ve put the extension on a "shortcut diet." We are now down to two clean, conflict-free combos:Super + Alt + Scroll(The Secret Handshake): Our new default. 🤝Ctrl + Super + Scroll(The Finger Gymnast): For those who like using all their digits at once. ⌨️Now you can zoom in on those cat memes with surgical precision and fly into Workspace 4. Your eyes (and your workflow) will thank you!It's open source and I'd love to hear what you think!AVAILABLE ON GNOME EXTENSIONS WEBSITE:https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/9256/deperto-zoom-by-scroll/GitHub:https://github.com/dennisguim/depertoThanks!19upvotes·20comments
Switching from Windows to Fedora as a dev has been amazing. Switching from Windows to Fedora as a dev has been amazing.u/Strange_Disk2202•1 mo. agoSwitching from Windows to Fedora as a dev has been amazing.DiscussionAs a Machine Learning developer learning and building in Python and C++, I have been using Windows for the past year or so. I didn't think about switching because before then I used it for web browsing and gaming and I already had Visual Studio Code setup. The beginning wasn't all that bad, however, the bigger my projects got, the more I began noticing the heavy resource usage Windows is notorious for. It was eating up RAM like candy. I was and am still too broke to buy a MacBook (I'm 15). I decided to replace my OS and while I had used Ubuntu in the past, I grew very tired of it to be honest, so I installed Fedora 43. The efficiency of this OS felt like heaven when I imported those projects and built upon them. The OS takes 14-15GB of storage space, it is functional on only 2GB of RAM which is massive resourceful advantage for my 16GB of RAM, and it is fully customization with extensions. My workflows have been made 10x easier with my preferred customization. It has been about a month since I switched and I don't plan on ever going back to Windows, what a nightmare that was. Looking back, there isn't really anything good about it other than Gaming advantages. There is also a chance that the games you'd wanna play could still be installed on Fedora using either Wine or some other workaround.
Snapshot/backup of the installation? Snapshot/backup of the installation?u/AardvarkSad7634•17 hr. agoSnapshot/backup of the installation?DiscussionHey,A few weeks ago I was playing around with different distros and the most interesting to me was definitely NixOS.However because of some compatibility issues with some tools I need for work, NixOS is really a feasible option for me.And I like Fedora so here we are :-)However, one thing that felt absolutely amazing about NixOS was that whenever I installed a system package, updated GPU drivers or did some other configuration of the system, I got a snapshot of which I could jump back to.I've been searching around online for this for Fedora, and it seems like there are a lot of options here. But they all seem a bit advanced, or at the very least require some time to configure and set up.What's the easiest option available to "snapshot" my system? Basically I want a way to jump to "yesterdays system" if I mess up the system somehow.My home directory etc isnt really that important, because all my work is usually directly in the cloud one way or another. The important part here is the system itself.I read that "dnf 4" had some plugin you could simply enable which would make a system backup on every dnf command. But with dnf 5 (which is what we have on fedora 43, right?).Thoughts?
Bad experience with Airplay discovery since Fedora 43 Bad experience with Airplay discovery since Fedora 43u/no-cluez•4 days agoBad experience with Airplay discovery since Fedora 43DiscussionHi,I recently had a bad audio related surprise since I switched to Fedora 43, let me explain.On my LAN I have a Marantz PM7000N network integrated amplifier which happens to be AirPlay capable. Not what I would call a "powerhouse" but still a very capable amp. I was casually listening to music around midnight at low level (as I often do to not bother anyone).The default playback device on my pc was on mute, and while opening an audio file it suddenly decided to switch to the Airplay sink (that I was not even aware off) while sending a 100% main volume command to the amplifier.That's how, while blasting my ears at midnight and for the pleasure of my neighboors, I learned that Airplay devices discovery (via libpipewire-module-raop-discover module) was now enabled by default.On a small connected speaker it surely would have been annoying, but on a hifi system with tower speakers ... F**k !!!!!The fact Airplay discovery is now enabled by default (why not)WHILE the sink being technically available/active by defaultWHILE not being listed by default because it's a virtual deviceAND WHILE sending a 100% volume command by default (instead of leave as is/mirroring the receiver current volume value)...is a TERRIBLE idea in my opinion !!Don't get me wrong, being able to stream to Airplay capable receivers is a very nice thing (and kudos to PipeWire developper team for that !) But the way it's currently handled by the system is very bad in my opinion.So if you have Airplay devices on your network, beware !
Fedora Doesn’t Like Budgie Fedora Doesn’t Like Budgieu/ImAlekzzz•7 days agoFedora Doesn’t Like BudgieSupportI’m new, starting point. I downloaded the fedora budgie iso and it wouldn’t install but say boot recovery, so I installed fedora kde to install budgie after, well I did and when I try to boot with budgie it just casually flickers stuck on the loading screen. Please help? I can’t stand kde anymore
How do Fedora compare to Bazzite in gaming performance? How do Fedora compare to Bazzite in gaming performance?u/marley_11111•1 day agoHow do Fedora compare to Bazzite in gaming performance?DiscussionI know Bazzite has it's tweaks and custom kernel, but how much performance gains is there actually? Is it worth switching to Bazzite or should i just keep roling with my Fedora install that i enjoy?
Fedora freeze's on boot Fedora freeze's on bootu/AbbreviationsOne3710•7 days agoFedora freeze's on bootSupportAfter installing Fedora, I restarted the computer, and it's frozen in the boot menu and won't boot at all.
Fedora 43 KDE: cursor inverted on second monitor, click does not happen where the cursor actually is Fedora 43 KDE: cursor inverted on second monitor, click does not happen where the cursor actually isu/Pikarz•18 hr. agoFedora 43 KDE: cursor inverted on second monitor, click does not happen where the cursor actually isSupportHello there.I'm new to Fedora and I'm already experiencing some problems...I have two monitors. In particular, one is placed at 90degrees anticlockwise. The cursor on this monitor is rotated, as if it's a standard landscape monitor, the background is rotated too but upon moving the cursor the movements are correct with respect to the -90degrees.Also, when i try to click, the clicks are not placed directly on where the bugged cursor actually is, but they're translated I think to what the position of the cursor would be if it was a landscape.I tried to reinstall the nvidia drivers through akmod. Upon removing them, the monitor works as it should, but upon reinstallation the problem appeared again.Lastly, Steam (idk if it happens on some other applications too) starts hidden on the main monitor. To make it show up, I have to enter big picture mode and exit it. Only then Steam actually shows up. However, upon entering a game, it just crashes.Thank you.EDIT: I noticed thatvulkaninfo --summaryreturnsllvmpipeas GPU1, whilelspcicorrectly detects my RTX 5080.
Introducing Mozilla’s Firefox Nightly .rpm package for RPM based linux distributions! – Firefox Nightly News Introducing Mozilla’s Firefox Nightly .rpm package for RPM based linux distributions! – Firefox Nightly Newsu/SAJewers•24 days agoIntroducing Mozilla’s Firefox Nightly .rpm package for RPM based linux distributions! – Firefox Nightly NewsAnnouncementhttps://blog.nightly.mozilla.org/2026/01/19/introducing-mozillas-firefox-nightly-rpm-package-for-rpm-based-linux-distributions/
NVMe showing SUBNQN missing + failed self‑tests (Fedora 42) NVMe showing SUBNQN missing + failed self‑tests (Fedora 42)u/International_Dot_22•8 days agoNVMe showing SUBNQN missing + failed self‑tests (Fedora 42)SupportOnce a week or so, my system freezes on boot,My Lexar NM610PRO (firmware 23437) intermittently logsnvme1: missing or invalid SUBNQNand the kernel falls back to NGUID;nvme error-logis currently empty butsmartctlshows multipleSelf-test: Completed: failed segmentsentries andError Information Log Entries: 5. I suspect the kernel probe quirk (NVME_QUIRK_BOGUS_NID) explains the SUBNQN/NGUID messages, but the self‑test failures point to real media/controller reliability issues. looking for advice, thank you
After 3 months with Plasma, I'm back to Gnome. Plasma's jack-of-all-trades approach is it's biggest weakness After 3 months with Plasma, I'm back to Gnome. Plasma's jack-of-all-trades approach is it's biggest weaknessu/saint_geser•11 days agoAfter 3 months with Plasma, I'm back to Gnome. Plasma's jack-of-all-trades approach is it's biggest weaknessDiscussionTl;dr: I tried Fedora Workstation Plasma version and I didn't enjoy it. I found that the main strength of Plasma - infinite customization - is also it's key flaw for productivity. Without a focused and somehow opinionated design I spent more time adjusting settings than actually working.A brief historical context: back in the day, all they way from maybe 2000-2010 KDE used to be my go-to DE. I used to really enjoy fiddling with settings all day long and didn't care so much about crashes. I also didn't like Gnome at all, I thought it was ugly, had very limited customization and was impractical.But a few years ago I started using Fedora as my main distro and eventually really got in tune with how Gnome is set up and really appreciated streamlined and productivity -focused design.I tried Plasma again last year with the release of Plasma 6 but I installed it on top of existing install and it was unstable and I felt like I didn't give it a fair shot.Now, with the release of Fedora 43, I did a proper fresh install of Plasma version and tried it for about 3 months to get a good feel for it.The main thing I didn't enjoy is that Plasma doesn't have a defined purpose and character. I guess, the idea is that it can be anything you want, but as much as I tried I couldn't replicate the productivity-focused feel I'm used to in Gnome. Just to make sure, I didn't try to make it look like Gnome, just wanted toake it simple and convenient, tried different approaches and failed miserably every time. It feels like doing anything is more work that it should be. In many cases, it comes down to some very odd default settings. Of course, you can fix most of these but it just takes time.Maybe if Plasma had a strong focused design , even if it prioritized something else, I could still get on the bandwagon but at the moment it is more of a "make your own adventure" book than something designed with a sense of purpose.So this is my main issue. There were lots of minor problems that spoiled experience, some of which I will list below:at one stage I needed to set up internet pass-through wifi hotspot. I have a main wifi pci-e card and a USB dongle. I wanted to use the dongle as the hotspot while receiving internet on my main card. Unfortunately, Plasma settings has no easy way to do this, which is surprising as it's not an unusual thing to want to do. Gnome had it better in that regard although pass-through settings still need to be done via console and nmcli.in my workflow I never look at desktop. I never use desktop icons and only ever see desktopin in overview. So this is not a big issue but what I encountered was that the wallpaper I select would randomly change back to the default Fedora wallpaper. No idea why. Minor annoyance but still.Plasma has some strange defaults in relation to multi-desktop setups. For example by default it's set for alt-tab to only include apps on the currently selected desktop. This is a major workflow breaker and a baffling default setting to have.regular "paste" option in Dolphin changes to "paste one file", "paste 10 files", etc. I feel like this is breaking a cardinal rule of UI/UX design that a visual element should remain in the same place and look same every time. Instead, it takes mental effort to locate paste option in context menu. I understand what they were going for there with providing extra information to the user but I believe there are better ways to achieve this.Gnome is often criticized (rightfully ) for breakage of extensions and the method of installations but on Plasma the widgets ecosystem is similarly fragmented. Most of widgets you can install via "get new widgets" are either very old, useless or broken so for anything useful you need to go to external websites, download archives and install them. This is terrible, and I don't see why it's not centralized properly.for some reason I could place icons for flatpak apps on the taskbar but I couldn't move them around. Not sure why. This was only the case with Flatpak apps, normal apps worked as expected.there's no bullt-in control center widget and the ones I found online or in "get new widgets" are not very functional. Probably, you can find some good ones, but I haven't been able to.I couldn't connect my dualsense controller via Bluetooth. It was never an issue on Gnome, bit on Plasma it just never appeared in the list of devices even though it was clearly in pairing modesystem on reboot always loaded to the second desktop, not sure why. Minor issue but the one I couldn't solve.Anyway, I think I'm done with Plasma for now and went back to Gnome. Maybe I'll try it in a few more years but I feel like I'll never enjoy it unless I see that there is an actual thought, purpose and idea behind the design.  Trying to be a jack-of-all-trades famously makes you a master of none which is exactly my problem with the core design principle.
Fedor dual boot with windows - installation , installer wants to format existing EFI partition, is it safe? Fedor dual boot with windows - installation , installer wants to format existing EFI partition, is it safe?u/itsme2019asalways•8 days agoFedor dual boot with windows - installation , installer wants to format existing EFI partition, is it safe?Support
Fedora Atomic - I seek guidance Fedora Atomic - I seek guidance[deleted]•4 days agoFedora Atomic - I seek guidanceDiscussionHello guys,I'm looking to install Fedora Kinoite on several laptops and there are some things that I'm unsure of. I would like to avoid layering and I'll use the OS for media consumption and light programming. Could you please help me out with there:- my main laptop is full AMD. Will hardware acceleration work if I only use flatpaks from Flathub with no layering?- how often are OS updates and can they be automated?- how big are updates and are delta updates enabled? I do remember form before that updating took a looong time,- are there any major flaws with flatpaks? I know there was an issue with reduced sandbox efficiency before for browsers,- what VPN are you guys using that also avoid layering?- are the Atomic desktops switching to bootc completely instead of ostree?- differences between Fedora KDE edition and Kinoite? I suppose Kinoite is leaner, faster and has less packages preinstalled (games, dev tools etc),- do Appimages work?- how do you guys do virtualisation? Virt-manager, gnome-boxes from flathub or layered?- what tips do you have for a fresh install?Thank youEdit:I've found the perfect distro for now - Fedora COSMIC Atomic. Almost perfect! Now we patiently wait for KDE Linux to arrive to maybe change my mind :)Thank you all for help and guidance, you were really helpful!
laptop wake issue laptop wake issueu/Coaxalis•20 hr. agolaptop wake issueSupportHowdy,every time my laptop finish charge during sleep, it wakes the screen. It remains being locked etc, but awake.Plug in / unplug charger wakes computer as well.Even closed lid has no impact on it, with setting to go to sleep when lid is closed.I use kde, btw
nvidia with fedora nvidia with fedorau/EpicuriousChipmunk•7 days agonvidia with fedoraDiscussionI attempted to install Fedora, but I ran into major issues with the NVIDIA drivers—all I got was a black screen. I tried usingnomodesetand other troubleshooting steps, but nothing worked. To be fair, I’m just an average PC user, not a Linux expert, so that might have played a part.What frustrates me is why Fedora makes this so difficult. Nobara, on the other hand, worked flawlessly for me. It feels like Fedora (and OpenSUSE Tumbleweed, which had the same problem) is effectively locking out users with NVIDIA graphics cards. It’s disappointing, especially when other distributions handle it so much better.edit: installation with fedora KDE (RTX4060) worked. but the boot after did end in black screen. sorry for confusion.edti2: thank you for all the answers and guides for installing nvidia drivers, but my problem is that i cannot even boot into fedora to install anything. i never had these kind of problems with other distros. Fedora and openSUSE are the only ones I tried that give me that kind of trouble
grub menu not shown! grub menu not shown!u/DayInfinite8322•8 days agogrub menu not shown!Supporti recently installed fedora, and update to latest Kernel,but grub menu not shown, after bios screen i see Black screen and then Fedora boot screen.i check grub configuration, timeout set to 5.
Switched to fedora 43 after 3 months of linux distro hopping Switched to fedora 43 after 3 months of linux distro hoppingu/ab_userofthebutt•15 days agoSwitched to fedora 43 after 3 months of linux distro hoppingDiscussionI started with linux 3 months agoFirst, I went from windows 11 to linux mintAfter a few days, Just out of curiosity, I switched to Arch linux and honestly just stuck with it.It was great...I first had Kde on my laptopthen i switched to hyprland (which was fun as hell)But for a few days, I was just having problems with my arch setup and all that perception inside me about the whole arch being an elite phenomenon was also disappearing.I also started studying for my exams and wasn't interested in managing my laptop even a little.The reason i switched to fedora is because i just don't need arch :)I was thinking of going back to mintbut i just ended up installing fedora 43 Kdeand it is really good and everything works without me doing anything substantial or anythinglove it😍
can't switch audio outputs anymore can't switch audio outputs anymoreu/imtsprvsr•3 days agocan't switch audio outputs anymoreSupport
I am trying to love it I am trying to love itu/nakedspirax•3 days agoI am trying to love itSupportInstalled Fedora KDE 2-3 weeks ago on my Lenovo laptop and whilst I love it, I also hate it.I'll start, fedora KDE is great. I love how it runs when it's working. I love the behaviors of fedora and the settings are easy enough for me to understand.Now. What I hate about it. The sleep issue with my laptop using the Nvidia discrete is a nightmare. It takes 60+ seconds to wake to login screen. External monitors also sucks. I cannot get it to work with external monitors and if I do, I can't use the laptop unplugged.It's probably a skill issue.Anyway I'm going to distro hop.
Fedora workstation to Fedora KDE Fedora workstation to Fedora KDEu/Infamous_Opinion123•8 days agoFedora workstation to Fedora KDESupportSo I started off on fedora workstation about a year ago and I have been using it since. I recently decided to try and switch it up and maybe using something like kde plasma. I didn't just want to stop there, I wanted to see what cachyOS was all about because of the hype. When I did try it on a VM, everything was really smooth. I enjoyed my experience on kde and cachyOS.I ultimately did a fresh install of fedora kde because I just thought fedora offered me the most. But as I am using it, I notice that performance I slightly worse than on gnome and cachyOS kde. Opening up apps such as Firefox is quite slow (2-4 seconds). RAM usage is higher than I had imagined which is not really a problem since I have enough. But I'm just wondering whether anyone else has had this experience and if there were some optimizations and fixes I was not aware of.I use a laptop and I have seen some stuff about kde plasmas aggressive cpu throttling on lower power modes but even when I do run it on performance I don't see that much of a difference. I also tried a host name fix thinking that might fix my issue but I haven't seen a difference.Any help I can get on this subject will be appreciated.
Kernel Module Signing Keys Kernel Module Signing Keysu/Old-Recognition6356•21 hr. agoKernel Module Signing KeysSupportWell, I have managed to get secure boot and kernel module signing work. I have Nvidia and Oracle VirtualBox up and running on Fedora KDE Plasma.But when I last updated my computer's BIOS / EFI firmware the signing keys were deleted and I needed to enroll the public key again.Here is my question: where is the information about what key is used when a new kernel version is installed to be used for signing the modules? I am not entirely sure my question is even correct as this is the part where my knowledge is inadequate.I enrolled the key used for Nvidia drivers with commandsudo mokutil --import /etc/pki/akmods/certs/public_key.derbut after that the VirtualBox did not work. Turns out I had to enroll second public keysudo mokutil --import /var/lib/shim-signed/mok/MOK.derand after that everything worked.I have originally followed instructions on how to do this for Nvidia (Howto/NVIDIAandHowto/Secure Boot) and then later for VirtualBox and the end result seems to be I have two different keys and I don’t know what is controlling this.Do I even need two? How is this thing working?
Essential Fedora "Toolkit" - What’s in your setup? (Apps, repos, workflow) Essential Fedora "Toolkit" - What’s in your setup? (Apps, repos, workflow)u/iwanttobebetterrr•5 days agoEssential Fedora "Toolkit" - What’s in your setup? (Apps, repos, workflow)DiscussionJust hit the 1-week mark on Fedora Workstation and honestly, I'm never looking back. The stability has been 10/10 so far.I've got the basics down and Flatpaks are rolling, but I want to build my ultimate "toolkit." What are your absolute must-haves? I’m looking for everything: essential GNOME extensions, Flatpaks, AppImages, etcWhat should I be looking into to get the most out of Fedora?Glad to finally be part of the community!
I am using vivobook16x core 5 225h, battery is draining while my laptop is on ac I am using vivobook16x core 5 225h, battery is draining while my laptop is on acu/Luffytaro-56•8 days agoI am using vivobook16x core 5 225h, battery is draining while my laptop is on acSupport*Note : i am using usb tethering for internet, noticed that the battery drains(while connected to ac) only when my samsung phone is connected to the laptop
DNF Wants to Remove My Kernel DNF Wants to Remove My Kernelu/coolman3475•11 days agoDNF Wants to Remove My KernelSupport
Easy Effects Sink options are displayed multiple times Easy Effects Sink options are displayed multiple timesu/JoeneckSpoeneck•5 days agoEasy Effects Sink options are displayed multiple timesSupport
As someone who doesn't customize much, KDE Plasma is awesome. As someone who doesn't customize much, KDE Plasma is awesome.u/fyzbo•10 days agoAs someone who doesn't customize much, KDE Plasma is awesome.DiscussionI'm not one for tweaking or customizing my computer. Just a plain black desktop. I just want it to work consistently and keep me productive. The operating system shouldn't require any type of setup, it should get out of the way.I always struggled with gnome.  Every guide has you installing tweaks, a dock, clipboard history, window tiling,... exhausting.Most gnome users seems to customize the heck out of their experience and act like it's completely normal. I get it, if installing extensions, making tweaks, and customizing is your thing, have fun. That's the great thing about linux, different distros for different personalities.For me, KDE Plasma just works. Sure, I still have to install applications, but that's it. Everything else is just built-in ready to go. No need to install extensions, it's all just there. I've read that youcancustomize plasma if desired, but I'm glad it's not required for the basics.I want to thank the Fedora team for making such an awesome distro!
Made it on the other side because of pweds :) Made it on the other side because of pweds :)u/xoxomono•12 days agoMade it on the other side because of pweds :)Screenshot
Been using fedora for like 5-6 months, i don't remember the last time using the terminal for anything other than fastfetch and ani-cli , linux can be easier than windows too if you don't prioritize gaming Been using fedora for like 5-6 months, i don't remember the last time using the terminal for anything other than fastfetch and ani-cli , linux can be easier than windows too if you don't prioritize gamingu/Exotic-Deal6832•1 mo. agoBeen using fedora for like 5-6 months, i don't remember the last time using the terminal for anything other than fastfetch and ani-cli , linux can be easier than windows too if you don't prioritize gamingDiscussion
Dash to Dock Dash to Docku/Inevitable-Nose6214•8 days agoDash to DockSupportRecently switched from popos to fedora and tried dash to dock, On home screen it remains as I want but when I open any program full screen it hides, actually I want it to hide but when I move my cursor to bottom edge it doesn't reappear is there way to do this ?
Fedora (Asahi Linux) on an M1 macbook is such a great combo - extremely stable, fast and a joy to use Fedora (Asahi Linux) on an M1 macbook is such a great combo - extremely stable, fast and a joy to useu/tempsanity•5 days agoFedora (Asahi Linux) on an M1 macbook is such a great combo - extremely stable, fast and a joy to useScreenshot[Hyprland] Never going back to daily driving macOS (Asahi Linux on Macbook M1 Max)r/unixporn•6 days ago[Hyprland] Never going back to daily driving macOS (Asahi Linux on Macbook M1 Max)785upvotes·88comments
How to change these settings using terminal....i got only refresh rate and resolution working using kdoctor... How to change these settings using terminal....i got only refresh rate and resolution working using kdoctor...u/arkylnox_•7 days agoHow to change these settings using terminal....i got only refresh rate and resolution working using kdoctor...Support
Won't bpot Won't bpotu/Grouchy-Career-1696•7 days agoWon't bpotSupportHello, I'm new to the Fedora, todya i downloaded the os and the moment that i rebooted it, it won't start, it's stuck on the loading animation. I've already tried a lot of things, nothing seems to work. My specs: thinkpad t14 gen 5, u7 155h, 16gb  ram. I have a scientific lab version
Switch to fedora gpu stay 0 percent, some freeze Switch to fedora gpu stay 0 percent, some freezeu/TekGeek_dev•21 hr. agoSwitch to fedora gpu stay 0 percent, some freezeSupportHello everyone,I was getting fed up with Windows, so I decided to switch to Fedora with KDE Plasma.I installed my applications and Dofus. It runs correctly.But I experience freezes on my desktop when I resize windows or do similar things.I checked the statistics, but my GPU usage is constantly at 0%.Do I need to install the Nvidia drivers?Thank you for your help, really appreciate!(GPU: 3070ti, CPU: 5700X, 32GB RAM)
Should I just ignore updates if it works? Should I just ignore updates if it works?u/Content_Mission5154•4 days agoShould I just ignore updates if it works?SupportI installed Fedora KDE 43 a month ago and haven't updated it since. Everything just works, and the way I see it, an update can only change that for the worse or keep things the way they are.Should I therefore ignore all updates until the next major Fedora release?
Anyone having audio issues with a Samsung Book 4 Pro running Fedora Gnome? Anyone having audio issues with a Samsung Book 4 Pro running Fedora Gnome?u/Ok-Friendship-5188•8 days agoAnyone having audio issues with a Samsung Book 4 Pro running Fedora Gnome?DiscussionSince I installed Fedora with Gnome on my Samsung a year and a half ago, the sound has never stopped working. All other peripherals work perfectly. I've tried everything, so don't tell me the obvious and basic things. Not even the microphone works, even though the kernel has been updated. Can anyone help me?
Is there any way to get Signal working on Fedora? Is there any way to get Signal working on Fedora?u/TheRunePony•7 days agoIs there any way to get Signal working on Fedora?DiscussionI'm on Fedora Workstation 43.I tried the Flatpak version from GNOME Software, but that gave me an error about the encryption not working.I tried installing the Debian native version in Distrobox, using the instructions on the developer's website, but that just straight up didn't work (I don't know why, I couldn't really interpret the message it gave me, something about a "broken pipe"? I don't know how any of the pipes could be broken when I copy/pasted the command verbatim)I also tried installing the flatpak version in Distrobox, but Distrobox containers apparently don't come with Flatpak/Flathub inabled? and attempting to set it up didn't work either.Has anyone else encountered any of these problems with Signal on Fedora? Is it just a "not on this distro" app, full stop?
App Ecosystem for Fedora App Ecosystem for Fedorau/nafizzaki•27 days agoApp Ecosystem for FedoraDiscussionhttps://github.com/Nafis-Zaki/Fedora_KDE_Post_Install/blob/main/Linux%20App%20Ecosystem%20(Complete)-1.pdfLinux App EcosystemA survival guide for Windows refugees on Linux, with a focus on preserving compatibility, muscle memory, and ease of use.The Github PDF link contains screenshots of all of the softwares and further insights and rants...1. Office & DocsONLYOFFICEThe Microsoft Bridge:Opens .docx, .pptx, and .xlsx without destroying formatting.Best Compatibility:Offers better compatibility than LibreOffice.Clean UI:Features a Ribbon interface that feels like Office 365.No Ads:Free desktop and mobile apps.ScribusProfessional Publishing:An open-source answer to InDesign.Print Ready:Supports CMYK and ICC color management.Use Case:Brochures, magazines, and PDFs.CalibreLibrary Management:Helps manage PDFs, epubs, mobi files, and comic books.Functionality:Not just for reading, but also editing, converting, and other utilities.2. Mail, Calendar & Password ManagerProton SuiteEncrypted Lifestyle:End-to-end encrypted email, calendar, and password manager.Web-First:Seamless sync across devices, avoiding the hassle of self-hosting.MailSpringLocal Desktop Powerhouse:Modern, unified inbox supporting Gmail and Outlook.KeePassXCPassword Management:Offline-first manager where you hold the keys.Note:The author personally avoids local managers due to syncing hassles, preferring cloud sync solutions.3. UtilitiesKDE ConnectSeamless Integration:Connects phone and desktop over Wi-Fi.Remote Input:Use phone as a trackpad.Clipboard:Universal copy-paste across devices.Btrfs AssistantSystem Recovery Simplified:Benefits from BTRFS disk format to help in recovery.Avoids Disaster:Essential for semi-rolling release distros where things might break.Note:If you are using Ubuntu or Linux Mint, use Timeshift instead.ArkArchive Manager:Supports zip, tar, 7z, and rar.Integrated:Baked right into the Dolphin file manager.Fast:Lightweight and simple for quick extractions.4. Text & KnowledgeMicroTerminal Text Editor:Human-friendly editor with standard hotkeys (Ctrl+C/V) in a terminal.Mouse Support:Click to move cursor and scroll to scroll.No Learning Curve:Easier than Vim and more powerful/simpler than Nano.ObsidianNotes Stack:Markdown-based second brain with graph view.Extensible:Has a massive library of plugins.KWriteQuick Editor:KDE-native text editor with instant startup.Usage:Comparable to Windows Notepad before recent changes.5. Creative ToolsKritaDigital Painting:Your CorelDraw alternative designed specifically for illustration.Brush Engine:Best-in-class tablet support.InkscapeVector Design:SVG native tool perfect for logos, icons, and diagrams.Precision:Powerful node editing tools.Alternative to:Adobe Illustrator.GIMPPhoto Manipulation:The open-source answer to Photoshop.Extensible:Massive library of plugins and completely free.digiKamPhotography Workflow:Professional photo management and tagging.DarktablePhotography Workflow:Non-destructive RAW editing and color grading.6. Audio & VideoAudacityAudio Editor:Simple, classic waveform editor.Use Case:Great for podcasts, voice cleanup, and cutting.MuseScoreMusic Composition:Professional sheet music creation with realistic instrument preview.Alternative to:Sibelius.LMMSDigital Audio Workstation:For beat making and MIDI composition.Included:Comes with synths and samples.Alternative to:FL Studio.OBS StudioStreaming & Recording:The industry standard for streamers.Features:Complex scene composition and low overhead capture.Blender3D Creation Suite:Handles everything from modeling and rigging to animation and rendering.Pro Grade:Used in major film and game productions.Friction2D Motion Graphics:Used by Studio Ghibli for vector animation.Alternative to:Adobe After Effects.OpenToonz2D Animation:Traditional frame-based animation used by Studio Ghibli.Alternative to:Toon Boom.KdenliveVideo Editing:Multi-track professional timeline workflow.Performance:Proxy support for smooth editing of 4K footage.Alternative to:Premiere Pro.HandBrakeVideo Transcoder:Compresses video for web or devices with one-click presets.7. Dev & InfrastructureZedEditor:High-performance, collaborative editor from the creators of Atom.AntigravityWorkflow:AI-first workflows for the modern development landscape.Cloudflare & VPNWeb Infrastructure:DNS, CDN, VPN, and security for projects.Self-Hosting:Essential for exposing local apps safely.Podman DesktopContainer GUI:Secure, rootless containers by default.Manager:Handle images, pods, and volumes easily.Alternative to:Docker Desktop.DBeaverDatabase Manager:Universal manager for SQL, PostgreSQL, MySQL, and SQLite.Visual:Clean UI for queries and schema visualization.Alternative to:DataGrip.8. Internet & FinanceLibreWolfHardened Browser:Firefox fork with no telemetry.Security:uBlock Origin pre-installed.Clean:No "pocket" or sponsored shortcuts.qBittorrentFile Sharing:Clean interface with no ads or crypto miners.Features:Search engine and RSS support built-in.Alternative to:uTorrent.PodcastsMedia:Gnome podcast client that simply works superb.KMyMoneyFinance:Double-entry accounting.Identity:The "Quicken" for Linux.
Heroic using 100% all resource usage! Heroic using 100% all resource usage!u/zOop_Bubz•23 hr. agoHeroic using 100% all resource usage!SupportHeroic using 100% all resource usage!r/HeroicGamesLauncher•2 days agoHeroic using 100% all resource usage!Whats up with Heroic Launcher latest version in fedora (rpm build).everything is fine until i start download games. the heroic creates multiple process idk why i tried setting fixed download workder in setting but still it does seem to work.The heroic use all my resource ram, cpu and disk 100% then fedora kills heroic launcher and it's all processes.does anyone facing similar issue?is it just rpm build issue that i am using?will using flatpak/appimage  fix this issue?1upvote·3comments
Syncthing Outdated Syncthing Outdatedu/BigBlacIke•5 days agoSyncthing OutdatedDiscussionhttps://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/?search=syncthing&releases=F43Looks like the last Syncthing build was 6 months ago. Is there a specific reason why we don't have a newer package? I want to know if I should start looking for a different packager.
is Fedora KDE good for beginners? is Fedora KDE good for beginners?u/dopamine_sniff•24 days agois Fedora KDE good for beginners?DiscussionI have never used anything outside of Windows, I've been considering abandoning Windows all together for a couple years now. And now I'm so sick and tired of this bullshit I can't do it anymore.I'm sorry for the short, simple and probably stupid question. But would you recommend Fedora KDE to a complete beginner? if so, I'm switching as soon as I can get a good USB Stick so I can save and transfer all my documents, videos, photos etc and switch it over to Fedora somehow.I only have 1 SSD in my computer and I'm running Windows 11, My download of Windows is corrupt or something I have no clue but I downloaded it in a weird way.. so I can't have secureboot enabled or anything and it doesn't update. So I'm scared to do anything wrong by dual booting, I just want to wipe the SSD completely and transfer my stuff.Any tips & tricks, pros & cons etc are DEEPLY appreciated❤️
I made a fedora 43 post installation guide for nvidia users! I made a fedora 43 post installation guide for nvidia users!u/mizifail•1 mo. agoI made a fedora 43 post installation guide for nvidia users!Discussionhttps://github.com/mizifool/Fedora-43-post-installation-guide-for-Nvidia-users
Manual Partitioning advice for Fedora KDE Atomic or Fedora Budgie Atomic Manual Partitioning advice for Fedora KDE Atomic or Fedora Budgie Atomicu/Individual_Fox634•1 day agoManual Partitioning advice for Fedora KDE Atomic or Fedora Budgie AtomicSupportHello,As I am getting ready to give a try toFedora KDEAtomicorBudgie Atomic, I was wondering what would be the most ideal way of manually partition the SSD on a laptop for more control and a hassle free experienceThe laptop is aThinkPad T460(Released in 2016) that has a256GB SATA SSD. For those who wonder why the 12GB partition for Swap: The laptop will be often hibernating to commute to work and also back home from work.The initial layout I have thought is the following. This one is NOT LVMI would appreciate if you could provide your opinions ifext4a proven and stable filesystem is the recommended or ifBtrfs(for/ (root),/varand/home) might make more sense. Also if I should considerLVM, instead** Partition layout **Mount point                Size                Filesystem       Purpose EFI System Partition       600 MB (default)     FAT32           UEFI boot /boot                      1 GB                 ext4            Kernel + initramfs Swap                       12 GB                swap            Hibernation + safety / (root)                   80 GB                ext4            Atomic OS deployments /var                       50 GB                ext4            Flatpaks, containers, logs /var/home                 ~112 GB               ext4            User data
Atomic - layer or flatpak for browser? Atomic - layer or flatpak for browser?[deleted]•3 days agoAtomic - layer or flatpak for browser?DiscussionHi guys,I installed COSMIC Atomic and I have to admit that it's perfect for my needs. Secure, blazing fast, no bloat and COSMIC gets rolling updates.However, there is one thing that is bothering me - browser. Included Firefox lacks codecs so I have three options:Layer codecs from RPMFusion - no. I want to avoid using this 3rd party repo. Also, Firefox on Linux is way less secure than any Chromium browser (weaker sandbox).Install any verified browser from Flathub - the easiest option but all of them have even weaker sanboxing than native apps. Why? Because flatpak does not allow full nested sanboxing inside. I hope they are working to fix this.Layer the entire browser like Brave or Vivaldi - this will make updates slower but will greatly improve security!How much does layering affect update speed? Will it also be a problem for auto-updates and distro updates?How do you install your browser and how does layering affect your use case?
heic converter in context menu? heic converter in context menu?u/JokelWayne•8 days agoheic converter in context menu?SupportIs there any way I can get an option to convert a heic image in the context menu?It is an easy terminal operation as outlined here:https://discussion.fedoraproject.org/t/heic-support-on-fedora-42/150496I reckon with something like Actions for Nautilus this should be doable, but I am to stupid.Or is there something that already does this?Edit:I asked an LLM and it worked. No "Actions for Nautilus" neccesary. Cool beans.
How do you backup fedora How do you backup fedorau/offline-person•6 days agoHow do you backup fedoraSupportI have started using fedora as my main operating system recently (42) and backing up with TimeshiftOne fine day, I upgraded to v43 and there were some mid range issues. So, I thought to fall back to v42 using the Timeshift backup which made me break my OS.I am not that techie and used AI to fix using Live OS, unfortunately I couldn't. So, I have decided to reinstall the OS.I got to know then that Timeshift can be used to restore only with respective versions and not switch between versions.Can someone suggest me a backup method which is reliableI had fedora on a lvm of size 200 gb. For backup, I can assign upto 40 gb. I don't want my /home files to be backed up. Only system backup is enough. I am looking something like versioning.
Bitlocker Bitlockeru/Jisidro_ILX•23 days agoBitlockerSupport
KDE or GNOME? KDE or GNOME?u/migiborshelima•6 days agoKDE or GNOME?DiscussionI am using Pop!_OS (with COSMIC since it's release on January) for quite a time, and while I really liked the way it looks and the keyboard shortcuts and the launcher, there were many small features that were missing and it feels like I could give cosmic some time to mature...So, Fedora? How do you guys use it? I find KDE a bit ugly, and I do not enjoy getting lost in customization, but I am sure I can find a way to configure it to look nice.Any complaints on Fedora?
Did anyone face stuttering issues with amd on kernel 6.18.7? Did anyone face stuttering issues with amd on kernel 6.18.7?u/East-Action-1636•5 days agoDid anyone face stuttering issues with amd on kernel 6.18.7?DiscussionI was facing a lot of stuttering issues in this kernel version. Its a lot more stable with 6.18.8.My dedicated ram allocated as vram was almost full even on idle, now hovers around 60 to 70% while watching yt vids. I can no longer see anymore stutters. (also, the mesa drivers were also updated along side the kernel)Laptop= thinkpad E14 g6Processor= Ryzen 7 7735hsGraphics= Integrated radeon 680mRam= 16gb (Yes, i have ram)
The SELinux Paradox: NSA roots, open source trust, and why everyone tells me to just setenforce 0. The SELinux Paradox: NSA roots, open source trust, and why everyone tells me to just setenforce 0.u/exeKnox•11 days agoThe SELinux Paradox: NSA roots, open source trust, and why everyone tells me to just setenforce 0.DiscussionHi everyone, ​I've been diving deeper into Linux system hardening recently, and I keep hitting a philosophical and practical wall regarding SELinux. ​I know that SELinux (Security-Enhanced Linux) is the gold standard for mandatory access control (MAC) on RHEL/Fedora systems. However, I can't shake off the fact that it was originally developed by the NSA. ​Given the history of mass surveillance and backdoors, it feels counter-intuitive to run "security" software developed by an intelligence agency on my personal or server machines. I wanted to ask the experienced sysadmins and veterans here a few things:​1. The Trust Issue How confident is the community that there are no backdoors in the SELinux code? I understand it is open source and merged into the mainline kernel, but the codebase is incredibly complex. Is "many eyes on the code" really enough to verify something this dense, or do we just trust it because Red Hat trusts it?​2. The "Disable It" Culture In almost every tutorial or vendor guide I read (especially for web servers or databases), one of the first troubleshooting steps is setenforce 0 or disabling it in the config file. If it is so essential for security, why is the UX so painful that the default community reaction is to turn it off? Is it worth the headache for a home lab or a small server?​3. Real World Scenarios Has SELinux actually saved your bacon? I understand the theory (preventing privilege escalation even if a daemon is compromised), but I’d love to hear specific, real-world examples where standard Linux permissions (DAC) would have failed, but SELinux (MAC) stopped an attack. ​I want to move beyond just blindly disabling it, but I need to be convinced that it's not just "NSAware" or unnecessary bloat for a non-enterprise user. ​Thanks for the insights!​TL;DR: NSA made it, everyone disables it because it breaks things. Why should I trust it and keep it enabled?
Mouse Scroll Wheel and Gaming Compatibility Issue. Mouse Scroll Wheel and Gaming Compatibility Issue.u/omega--1•1 day agoMouse Scroll Wheel and Gaming Compatibility Issue.SupportHi :). I have a quick question I am hoping someone can help me. I am having issues using my scroll wheel on my Logitech device (G502 Wireless) while gaming. Sometimes, the scroll wheel wont switch weapons, and if I turn the scroll sensitivity up, then it overshoots. When I used to use Windows (I am very new to Linux) I could switch weapons in discrete intervals one wheel-click at a time.I have been searching around for fixes. One fix, described below, was given by an Arch user. Though, when I follow this file path, I don't see an exact config file with the name "blacklist.conf" but instead a larger list of other blacklist files.Open up the /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf file.Add the following line to the file: blacklist hid_logitech_hidppSave the file and exit the text editor. Reboot your system for the changes to take effect.Connect your mouse to be wired, then unplug. And now it works! (No idea why but oh well!)Is anyone able to let me know what config file I should be editing, or perhaps other users have experienced a similar issue and know a fix for Fedora? I am using KDE Plasma ver 6.5.5 and running Fedora 43.
StreamLinux Update StreamLinux Updateu/Prestigious-Pair8731•4 days agoStreamLinux UpdateDiscussion
Miami Vice Kitty Terminal on Fedora Miami Vice Kitty Terminal on Fedorau/Cranky404•5 days agoMiami Vice Kitty Terminal on FedoraScreenshot
Cannot shutdown Fedora....reset yes but not shutdown.....windows works fine...logs below Cannot shutdown Fedora....reset yes but not shutdown.....windows works fine...logs belowu/arkylnox_•8 days agoCannot shutdown Fedora....reset yes but not shutdown.....windows works fine...logs belowSupportLot more selinux issue above this that i didnt copy...the same thing a million times.......Feb 05 06:16:37 fedora setroubleshoot[7559]: SELinux is preventing ps from g>Feb 05 06:16:37 fedora setroubleshoot[7559]: SELinux is preventing ps from g>Feb 05 06:16:37 fedora setroubleshoot[7559]: SELinux is preventing ps from g>Feb 05 06:16:37 fedora setroubleshoot[7559]: SELinux is preventing ps from g>Feb 05 06:16:37 fedora setroubleshoot[7559]: SELinux is preventing ps from g>Feb 05 06:16:37 fedora setroubleshoot[7559]: SELinux is preventing ps from g>Feb 05 06:16:37 fedora setroubleshoot[7559]: SELinux is preventing ps from g>Seehttps://wayland.freedesktop.org/libinput/doc/1.30.1/touchpad-jumping-cursors.htmlfor detailsFeb 05 06:21:18 fedora kwin_wayland[2590]: Libinput: event6  - SYNA32FF:00 06CB:CFC5 Touchpad: WARNING: log rate limit exceeded (5 msgs per 24h). Discarding future messages.Feb 05 06:25:26 fedora kwin_wayland[2590]: Invalid framebuffer status:  "GL_FRAMEBUFFER_INCOMPLETE_ATTACHMENT"Feb 05 06:25:26 fedora kwin_wayland[2590]: Invalid framebuffer status:  "GL_FRAMEBUFFER_INCOMPLETE_ATTACHMENT"Feb 05 06:29:31 fedora kernel: ACPI Error: No handler for Region [CMS0] (00000000433a246b) [SystemCMOS] (20250807/evregion-131)Feb 05 06:29:31 fedora kernel: ACPI Error: Region SystemCMOS (ID=5) has no handler (20250807/exfldio-261)Feb 05 06:29:31 fedora kernel: ACPI Error: Aborting method \_SB.PC00.LPCB.EC0._Q33 due to previous error (AE_NOT_EXIST) (20250807/psparse-529)Feb 05 06:52:42 fedora cupsd[1747]: [Client 3] Returning IPP client-error-bad-request for Create-Printer-Subscriptions (/) from localhost.Feb 05 06:52:44 fedora cupsd[1747]: [Client 4] Returning IPP client-error-bad-request for Create-Printer-Subscriptions (/) from localhost.Feb 05 06:59:16 fedora kernel: ACPI Error: No handler for Region [CMS0] (00000000433a246b) [SystemCMOS] (20250807/evregion-131)Feb 05 06:59:16 fedora kernel: ACPI Error: Region SystemCMOS (ID=5) has no handler (20250807/exfldio-261)Feb 05 06:59:16 fedora kernel: ACPI Error: Aborting method \_SB.PC00.LPCB.EC0._Q33 due to previous error (AE_NOT_EXIST) (20250807/psparse-529)Feb 05 07:02:52 fedora systemd[1]: [🡕] sysinit.target: Found ordering cycle: cups.path/stop after paths.target/stop after basic.target/stop afteruser@1000.service/stop after systemd-crypt>Feb 05 07:02:52 fedora systemd[1]: [🡕] systemd-tmpfiles-setup.service: Found ordering cycle: dbus-broker.service/stop afterbasic.target/stopafteruser@1000.service/stop after systemd-cry>Feb 05 07:02:52 fedora systemd[1]: [🡕] local-fs.target: Found ordering cycle: systemd-userdb-load-credentials.service/stop after nss-user-lookup.target/stop after systemd-logind.service/st>Feb 05 07:02:52 fedora systemd[1]: [🡕] local-fs.target: Found ordering cycle: authselect-apply-changes.service/stop after nss-user-lookup.target/stop after systemd-logind.service/stop afte>Feb 05 07:02:52 fedora systemd[1]: [🡕] systemd-tmpfiles-setup.service: Found ordering cycle: systemd-logind.service/stop afteruser@1000.service/stop after systemd-cryptsetup@luks\x2df2502>Feb 05 07:02:52 fedora systemd[1]: [🡕] network.target: Found ordering cycle: systemd-user-sessions.service/stop afteruser@1000.service/stop after systemd-cryptsetup@luks\x2df2502d80\x2db5>Feb 05 07:02:52 fedora auditd[1452]: plugin /usr/sbin/sedispatch terminated unexpectedlyFeb 05 07:02:52 fedora systemd-coredump[13420]: Failed to connect to coredump service: Connection refusedFeb 05 07:02:52 fedora systemd-coredump[13430]: Failed to connect to coredump service: Connection refusedFeb 05 07:02:52 fedora systemd[1]: Failed unmounting home.mount - /home.Feb 05 07:02:52 fedora systemd[1]: Failed unmounting run-user-1000.mount - /run/user/1000.Feb 05 07:02:52 fedora systemd-cryptsetup[13455]: Device luks-sdkfjhkdsjfkashfjdjahfsjdfhds-34dweafdjasnkf is still in use.Feb 05 07:02:52 fedora systemd-cryptsetup[13455]: Failed to deactivate 'luks-sdkfjhkdsjfkashfjdjahfsjdfhds-34dweafdjasnkf': Device or resource busyany solutions?
What do you guys think about this ? Should we have the Extension Manager app installed by default on the Workstation Edition ? What do you guys think about this ? Should we have the Extension Manager app installed by default on the Workstation Edition ?u/nguyendoan15082006•1 mo. agoWhat do you guys think about this ? Should we have the Extension Manager app installed by default on the Workstation Edition ?Discussionhttps://itsfoss.com/news/fedora-gnome-extension-manager-proposal/
Running ms office 2019 Running ms office 2019u/Fun_Drive_9330•1 day agoRunning ms office 2019SupportRunning ms office 2019r/linux4noobs•1 day agoRunning ms office 2019hey everyone, im using fedora workstation and i want to use ms office 2019, that version because i have its license and i cant use 2013 or 2016 version with the 2019 license so other than VMs is there a way to run ms office 2019? tried running with bottles and it didnt get past 3% (online installer). i tried using onlyoffice but it had some issues when i tried the ppt i made on powerpoint plus the transitions are really laggy even with hardware acceleration on, same with libreoffice1upvote·9comments
Dell power light issue Dell power light issueu/Norlyzzz•1 day agoDell power light issueSupportHi everyone,I recently did a fresh Fedora installation on my Dell Precision 5560, and since then the power LED has been blinking in a pattern: one amber blink followed by three white blinks.I’ve already installed all available firmware updates and checked that drivers appear to be working correctly, but the LED pattern persists.Has anyone else experienced this issue or know what might be causing it?
Fedora doesn't boot Fedora doesn't bootu/Psychological_Tear_6•8 days agoFedora doesn't bootSupportSo I've tried to do a clean install three times, but afterwards always run into the issue that it doesn't boot. I get a loading screen, wheel turning, then the wheel stops and nothing else happens until I press the power button, then the wheel starts spinning again as it starts to turn off. Sometimes it gets to a completely black screen. I can boot to the USB easily enough, I shredded the drive before this latest install, which was the only advice I could find with a googling.My immediate suspicion is that it's a GPU driver issue, as I had something similar a while back after installing Mint, but straight from install is new, and I have no idea how to fix this.Computer is a MSI G65 Thin.
I think I‘ve finally found my „forever“ distro. Fedora, I chose you! I think I‘ve finally found my „forever“ distro. Fedora, I chose you!u/Drachenherz•13 days agoI think I‘ve finally found my „forever“ distro. Fedora, I chose you!DiscussionAfter switching to Mint last year, I was actually quite happy with it. Until I got the itch to play in VR again. I begrudgingly switched back to windows.I just got a new GPU (Radeon RX 9070 XT) and gifted the RTX 3080 to my son, so naturally I wanted to try out Fedora again, for all the (more or less hasslefree) bells and whistles it offers with an AMD GPU system. I did my research about the current state of VR on Linux, and said to myself: „well, let‘s test it out. If I manage to get my favourite VR games to run, then it‘s time for the definite switch (with Win „banned“ to a small SSD as an emergency fallback solution for VR games (sims) that are a PITA to get to run (if ever) on Linux.“Alyx, Into the Radius 1 and 2, Bonelabs, Elite: Dangerous and quite some others more run pretty much flawlessly now on my system.I. Am. Stoked!Time to swap the SSDs now - the Big One for Fedora KDE plasma, the small one for Windows and reformatting a few HDDs to suit the new system!Thank you for this great OS, I love it!
I built a Linux app to control Razer Blade laptops - fan curves, power profiles, RGB, battery health - no kernel modules needed! I built a Linux app to control Razer Blade laptops - fan curves, power profiles, RGB, battery health - no kernel modules needed!u/EuropeanPepe•8 days agoI built a Linux app to control Razer Blade laptops - fan curves, power profiles, RGB, battery health - no kernel modules needed!DiscussionI built a Linux app to control Razer Blade laptops - fan curves, power profiles, RGB, battery health - no kernel modules needed!r/razer•8 days agoI built a Linux app to control Razer Blade laptops - fan curves, power profiles, RGB, battery health - no kernel modules needed!Hey everyone! 👋I've been working onRazer Control Revived- a Linux userspace tool for Razer Blade laptops. If you've ever been frustrated trying to get proper fan/power control on your Razer laptop in Linux, this might help!What it doesFan Control- Auto mode or set specific RPM (no more jet engine sounds!)Power Profiles- Balanced, Gaming, Creator, Silent, or CustomCPU/GPU Boost- Fine-tune performance levelsBattery Health Optimizer- Limit charge to 50-80% to extend battery lifespanLogo LED- Off, On, or BreathingKeyboard RGB- Brightness and effects (Static, Wave, Breathing, Spectrum)Modern GTK4 GUI- With separate AC/Battery profiles that auto-switchNo DKMS/kernel modules required!Pure userspace via hidraw.ScreenshotsaboveDownloadsGitHub ReleasesFedora/RHEL:sudo dnf install ./razercontrol-0.2.0-1.fc43.x86_64.rpmUbuntu/Debian/Pop-OS: .deb package in releases you can install it via GUI.Other distros:AppImage or tarball (daemon needs system install, GUI is portable)AppImage you can basically launch it with one click :)NixOS FlakeSupported modelsBlade 14/15/16/17, Blade Pro, Blade Stealth, Razer Book 13, and the newBlade 16 2025. Full list on GitHub.KDE usersThere's also aKDE Plasma 6 widgetfor quick panel access!This started as a fork of the abandoned razer-laptop-control project. I've added the GUI, new device support, and packaging.Would love feedback, bug reports, or PRs! If you have a Razer laptop model I haven't tested, let me know if it works.GitHub:https://github.com/encomjp/razer-control-revived46upvotes·16comments
Windows user switching to Fedora. Windows user switching to Fedora.[deleted]•1 mo. agoWindows user switching to Fedora.DiscussionHello dear Fedora people,I just wanted to say hi and say how much impressed I am so far with Fedora Workstation.My first linux distro was Suse 8, and I've distrohopped a lot back in those days. Used Slackware, Debian and ultimately Ubuntu for quite a while.But because gaming and a lot of apps didn't work well or at all on Linux I was kinda forced to go to Windows. And honestly, Windows 7 was great. Didn't get in my way.Windows 11 is... okay? It works fine I guess. I basically just wanted to use something else for fun and I'm very impressed by how versatile linux has become. And I don't like where things are going with Microsoft.Gaming seems to work great most of the time and I only play older games because my laptop is not a graphical powerhouse. I could run doom 2016 on extremely low settings (and finished it). Yeah it's that bad.But a lot of indie games work natively and proton is great for those windows games.Also configuring Gnome is pretty easy. It basically looks like a mix of Zorin os but with all the goodness of Fedora.So yeah, I'm pretty pleased up to this point.
Tried to update to Fedora 43, now can't even boot a live USB Tried to update to Fedora 43, now can't even boot a live USBu/LazyTelephone8532•18 days agoTried to update to Fedora 43, now can't even boot a live USBSupport
what is happening here? what is happening here?u/Popular-March8525•3 days agowhat is happening here?Support
Does anyone know whats going on here? What could be causing this? Does anyone know whats going on here? What could be causing this?u/Felix_Smith•8 days agoDoes anyone know whats going on here? What could be causing this?Support
File Manager Can't Play Some MP4 Files - Fedora 43 File Manager Can't Play Some MP4 Files - Fedora 43u/dratsablive•8 days agoFile Manager Can't Play Some MP4 Files - Fedora 43SupportGot a new laptop and installed Fedora 43, and now some MP4 files won't play from any File Manger. But I can play the same files using VLC/Movie Player, etc. Also playing from a terminal using vlc filename, movie plays fine.  But when I double click from any file manger I get an error "No Video/Audio to play." Doesn't matter if I use Gnome/Budgie, or any other desktop, get the same error.
Sound is output to "smart" speaker without consent Sound is output to "smart" speaker without consentu/Bokaii•1 day agoSound is output to "smart" speaker without consentSupportI have the weirdest issue that is driving me and my wife crazy.Sometimes sounds from my Fedora desktop are played on a smart wireless speaker in my downstairs kitchen on the loudest volume possible. The issue here is that I have never knowingly connected the desktop in any way shape or form to this speaker.When looking at sound outputs, the speaker is not listed, and Bluetooth is not enabled on the desktop.  Even with Bluetooth enabled, the speaker in question is not listed as a connectable device, because pairing mode has not been enabled on the speaker.My sound output is my headset, and it plays audio just fine at the same time this issue is occuring.I verified it is the Fedora machine producing the sound at the speaker by unplugging/pluggin in a USB device several times in a row while listning from screams from my wife downstairs("BOKAI, IT IS DOING IT AGAIN!" 😂) .The speaker is a Harman Kardon Citation 500, with Google Home/Assistant integration.Any tips on how to troubleshoot this? I feel it really have to be either something really stupid or really complex. 😀
Just bought an Acer Nitro V15 and installed Fedora 43 — now I can’t get into the BIOS anymore. Just bought an Acer Nitro V15 and installed Fedora 43 — now I can’t get into the BIOS anymore.u/eagoracaio•8 days agoJust bought an Acer Nitro V15 and installed Fedora 43 — now I can’t get into the BIOS anymore.Support[SOLVED]Just useefibootmgr -b XXXX -Bto remove 0000 and 0002I’ve seen a few posts mentioning that this is a known issue between Linux and some Acer hardware, and that renaming or modifying a certain boot file in the EFI partition can help. The problem is, none of the guides explain exactly how to do it, and the file names in my system don’t match what’s described.Here’s myefibootmgroutput:$ efibootmgr BootCurrent: 0000 Timeout: 0 seconds BootOrder: 0000,0002,2001,2002,2003 Boot0000* FedoraHD(1,GPT,65957ee3-fc1c-4da1-8a46-e6a1abf41d39,0x800,0x12c000)/\EFI\fedora\shim.efiRC Boot0002* FedoraHD(1,GPT,65957ee3-fc1c-4da1-8a46-e6a1abf41d39,0x800,0x12c000)/\EFI\fedora\shimx64.efi Boot2001* EFI USB DeviceRC Boot2002* EFI DVD/CDROMRC Boot2003* EFI NetworkRCIf anyone has dealt with this before on an Acer laptop — especially the Nitro series — I’d really appreciate some step-by-step help or links to a working solution.
PSA: Improve Wi-Fi stuttering and latency on MT7922 network cards PSA: Improve Wi-Fi stuttering and latency on MT7922 network cardsu/matatag•5 days agoPSA: Improve Wi-Fi stuttering and latency on MT7922 network cardsDiscussionI recently installed Fedora 43 on my desktop that has the "MT7922 802.11ax PCI Express Wireless Network Adapter" card, and I'd notice that sometimes the speeds would tank for some seconds and then go back to normal.Turns out you should disable Wi-Fi power management:https://discussion.fedoraproject.org/t/tip-lower-wifi-latency-by-disabling-wifi-power-management/74534Took me a bit to find, as I was searching specifically about my card thinking it was related to it, but it seems to be a general issue with MediaTek drivers.
JB Rider (Flatpak) with DevContainers Questions JB Rider (Flatpak) with DevContainers Questionsu/ExtensionFile4477•1 day agoJB Rider (Flatpak) with DevContainers QuestionsSupportSystem: Fedora 43 Kinoite (Atomic).My current project setup is using the Jetbrains Rider Flatpak and using SSH to connect to a Toolbox container.I see there is also an option for DevContainers and I was wondering if anyone would be able to provide steps on how this should be configured? I was hoping I could set this up instead to avoid using SSH every single time.The issue im mainly running into is when I try to setup podman in the jetbrains configuration, Rider i unable to find podman.I've tried using AI to try to help since I couldnt find any specific guides when using the Flatpak. It mentioned manually setting the podman executable but im also stuck on if i need to specifically find/install podman or just use toolbox since its based on podman.I also wasnt sure what other configuration I would need to set on the application permissions to allow certain system access where needed. Do anyone know if/how this can be configured?
Is there a terminal that supports all ANSI escape codes? Is there a terminal that supports all ANSI escape codes?u/Qwert-4•1 day agoIs there a terminal that supports all ANSI escape codes?SupportThis pagehttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_escape_code#Select_Graphic_Rendition_parametersshows a list of 81 different escape codes to format text in the terminal. Ptyxis supports only a handful of them. Is there a terminal that supports most or all? Sub- and superscript features look interesting.
PC Took A Long Time To Boot, Should I Be Worried? PC Took A Long Time To Boot, Should I Be Worried?u/Fishcakedotmp4•8 days agoPC Took A Long Time To Boot, Should I Be Worried?SupportI've been using Fedora (KDE Plasma) for just under a week and so far i've had no issues, but today it took long enough to boot that I got a little nervous.After being stuck on the loading screen (with my motherboard icon and the Fedora logo) for a few minutes, my keyboard and mouse weren't working on the login screen despite being on. My speakers make this "popping" sound when they boot for the first time, and it took a minute or two on the login screen for that to happen and for my peripherals to start working. I have limited storage space so I don't have any sort of backup program set up on Fedora (though i've been meaning to get around to it), and i'm just worried something is messed up.The only thing of note is I have a small (and quite old) external sata ssd that I use for media storage, and I have set to automount. When I booted up it wasn't mounted, could that be related to the issue? In gnome disks it says "Disk is OK" and I ran smartctl on my two nvme ssd's and both passed the self health checks.I was messing with Windows VM's yesterday, trying out a few programs and installing/removing multiple VM's, though i'm not entirely sure that's related, it's just the only thing of note that I did on my pc yesterday.I was just curious if there's any steps I can take to make sure everything is running as intended (as it seems to be so far) and if I should be worried at all about this. Thanks.
The only feature that prevent me to ditch windows for linux The only feature that prevent me to ditch windows for linuxu/DazzlingPassion614•8 days agoThe only feature that prevent me to ditch windows for linuxDiscussion
Fedora iot 43 bootable usb errors Fedora iot 43 bootable usb errorsu/clbraddock•8 days agoFedora iot 43 bootable usb errorsSupportHi everyone, I’m having some trouble making a bootable usb for Fedora iot 43. I’ve made bootable Ubuntu USBs in the past with unetbootin and have spun up Fedora vms from isos before, but I cannot get this to work.Each time intel PC either says no bootable media or if it does find the bootable usb it fails the checksum at 4.8%I have tried making the bootable usb on a Mac by dd in the terminal (bootable usb is found but fails checksum)I also have tried using Fedora Media Writer 5.2.9 on Windows 10, but those USB’s aren’t found by the boot loader at all when I try to boot them. I did take the extra steps of turning of autoplay in windows and disabling auto mount in windows.Is there some trick to this?
Why does it flashes in between loading ? Why does it flashes in between loading ?u/Original_Round_2211•9 days agoWhy does it flashes in between loading ?Support
I am try to use Orca screen reader but it is impossible to use it! Need help I am try to use Orca screen reader but it is impossible to use it! Need helpu/Capable-Jackfruit587•1 day agoI am try to use Orca screen reader but it is impossible to use it! Need helpSupportI am trying to read text on web page(Firefox reader mode) using orca screen reader. I don't mind Orca reading windows name etc. But I want to start from a certain paragraph and I like it to read I want it to stop.It is impossible to control Orca reader. It always starts from beginning of the page and mostly stops after reading page title can't get it read any further. `Capslock + s` don't work either!!Ideally, I want a replacement for "Read Aloud: A Text to Speech Voice Reader" Firefox extension, because Orca gives me non robotic voices for free(using 3rd party open source voices).
4 Months using Fedora and Camera not working 4 Months using Fedora and Camera not workingu/SOCanalystSleep•9 days ago4 Months using Fedora and Camera not workingSupportTBH I don't even use it and I have not look for a solution but every single time that I open the camera app it just crashes, but the camera works in other places like Zoom and Teams.Any GIT with a solution?
Should i switch to KDE plasma instead of GNOME? Should i switch to KDE plasma instead of GNOME?u/Excellent_Tone_2126•13 days agoShould i switch to KDE plasma instead of GNOME?DiscussionSo I started using fedora GNOME (as my first Linux distro) about a month ago, I like it but some times it feels a little limited or missing a quality of life changes because of the minimalist philosophy thing GNOME goes for and i also have been facing bugs with scaling and games having worse performance than windows, i have been thinking of hoping to KDE plasma or just go for a compeletly new linux distro, is that a good idea or would you recommend againest it? be honest
USB4 Constant disconnect / reconnect issue with fedora kde USB4 Constant disconnect / reconnect issue with fedora kdeu/MightyMochiGames•8 days agoUSB4 Constant disconnect / reconnect issue with fedora kdeSupportUSB4 Constant disconnect / reconnect issue with fedora kder/FlowZ13•8 days agoUSB4 Constant disconnect / reconnect issue with fedora kdeSOLVED-ish:https://www.reddit.com/r/FlowZ13/comments/1qvvarr/comment/o3o80c9/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web3x&utm_name=web3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_buttonI have installed fedora kde 42 on my 2025 Flow Z13, and it works pretty well for the most part. But now I am trying to use external usb4/thunderbolt SSD enclosures and when plugged in Fedora constantly disconnects and reconnects, never allowing me to use the devices. I have narrowed down this to be specific to my Z13 and not Fedora itself.Does anyone know if there are specific power settings in Fedora related to thunderbolt? Or any other possible way to solve this disconnect/reconnect issue?Under the dual booted windows OS I do not experience these issues.EDIT: I also can't find any thunderbolt security settings in the bios, aside from just disabling the ports.2upvotes·14comments
Stuck on the time zone screen Stuck on the time zone screenu/SariSariStore•4 days agoStuck on the time zone screenSupport
Steam rpm bwrap issue Steam rpm bwrap issueu/Adeur93•8 days agoSteam rpm bwrap issueSupportEverytime I open steam it reports an issue with bwrap. It doesn't seem to affect anything tho. Should I leave it or is there any way to fix that?
Sync User Profile Across Systems?? Sync User Profile Across Systems??u/Potential_Ad4169•6 days agoSync User Profile Across Systems??DiscussionDoes anyone know of a good way to sync a user “profile” across systems?Use case: I have Fedora 43 Workstation installed on a desktop and laptop. Both are configured the same and have the same apps installed. I’d like to keep my user files and config synced across the two of them.Attempted solution: I tried to use SyncThing to sync my /home to my between them but ran into a bunch of sync errors and files that were locked. I have a SyncThing server which acts as the sync hub. I was only using 1 system at a time, so I didn’t understand why the files were locked.I’ve been been a MCP/MCSE for the past 20 years, but switched to Fedora 43 as my daily driver 5 months ago. Clearly, I have a lot to learn, so thank you for the guidance/help/suggestions in advance.
linux dolby atmos support! linux dolby atmos support!u/DayInfinite8322•9 days agolinux dolby atmos support!Discussiondoes linux have dolby atmos support?
What is this Bitcoin entry in Fedora Firewall? What is this Bitcoin entry in Fedora Firewall?u/qiratb•17 days agoWhat is this Bitcoin entry in Fedora Firewall?Support
Suspend/ Lock issue Suspend/ Lock issueu/Adorable-Feed-2148•9 days agoSuspend/ Lock issueDiscussionFor context im using fedora version 43. I switch by the end of the last year. i have a annoying issue. every time i leave my laptop in lock or suspend for a long period of time  (hour or longer) and i come back the laptop says it one while the screen shows nothing....this lead me to shut it down and opening it leading to my tabs to being close.i face the problem before and i saw someone saying updating and upgrading helps. and it did for while then it started once more and updating and upgrading doesn't help.i keep a lot of tab including apps. and i don't remember what i open. so i would like to have a solution to this so my tabs don't close.
How safe is fedora workstation 43? How safe is fedora workstation 43?u/Similar_Reflection75•8 days agoHow safe is fedora workstation 43?DiscussionBeen hesitant to log into accounts. Is there anything I should do before logging in on my browser? I use zen browserIs there any firewall I should set up? If so how?
losing control over pc when leaving it afk too long losing control over pc when leaving it afk too longu/not_techno6•6 days agolosing control over pc when leaving it afk too longSupportSorry if this is a dumb question, I'm pretty new to Linux and I've been debugging and setting up other stuff for a few hours now.When I leave my PC running for a while and come back, the monitor, keyboard, and mouse are all completely disconnected and will not reconnect no matter what I do, meaning I have no way to interact with the PC. On top of this, all of my case and AIO fans run at 100% speed so the system doesn't seem to have control over them anymore. The only way I can fix this is to turn the power supply switch off and wait for the system to completely power down and then switch it back on and power it up.I'm assuming that it's going into some sort of sleep mode, but it can't be intentional that it disconnects all of my peripherals and jacks the fans up to 100%, right? If this is an error, how can I fix this? Much thanks.
Difference between shimx64.efi and shim.efiRC Difference between shimx64.efi and shim.efiRCu/hlebushe_k•9 days agoDifference between shimx64.efi and shim.efiRCSupportI have just found out about efibootmgr and checked what version I have with sudo efibootmgr -v. It showed my win11, ubuntu, which I need to delete cause I deleted it, and two fedora boots - shimx64.efi and shim.efiRC. Judging from ubuntu's file being shimx64.efi, the smi.efiRC should be Fedora's rescue boot, am I right? Also, while you're here, how do I safely delete Ubuntu boot drive (fyi: i deleted it a couple days ago, but the boot option is still in UEFI)?
Why is Linux not working on my Dell Laptop Why is Linux not working on my Dell Laptopu/fuckedtwotimes•1 day agoWhy is Linux not working on my Dell LaptopSupportWhenever I install Fedora or any other Linux distro, everything gets installed fine but when I try to boot after installation, it does not boot and a black screen appears. System Info: Model: Dell Latitude 5400 Processor: Intel Core i7-8365U CPU @ 1.80GHz RAM: 16 GB DDR4 Storage: 1 TB NVME SSD Graphics: Intel UHD Graphics Secure boot: Disabled
Having problems switching to the Nvidia Drivers from Nouveau. Having problems switching to the Nvidia Drivers from Nouveau.u/f44__•9 days agoHaving problems switching to the Nvidia Drivers from Nouveau.SupportI use Fedora 43. And i can't change to the NVidia Drivers. Currently using a GTX 1050 ti with a eGPU on my notebook.
Custom DNS settings revert on reboot, how to set DNS permanently? (Fedora 43 Sway spin) Custom DNS settings revert on reboot, how to set DNS permanently? (Fedora 43 Sway spin)u/Civil-Raisin-2741•2 days agoCustom DNS settings revert on reboot, how to set DNS permanently? (Fedora 43 Sway spin)SupportOn the Fedora 43 Sway spin I set the custom DNS for an interface, the issue is that when I reboot it gets reset to the defaults, how to fix this?I have to run this at every startup, then it works as expected:sudo nmcli con mod "Wired connection 1" ipv4.ignore-auto-dns yes  sudo nmcli con mod "Wired connection 1" ipv4.dns "192.168.1.69" sudo nmcli con up "Wired connection 1"How can I make this change not reset at every reboot but be permanent?ThanksEdit: I see thatsystemd-resolvedis active and when running those 3 commands in the logs it shows the DNS server gets changed. I don't know how the network stack works here, what do I have to configure?
Why is it offering gnome platform update in fedora KDE Why is it offering gnome platform update in fedora KDEu/Original_Round_2211•2 days agoWhy is it offering gnome platform update in fedora KDESupport
Weird Wifi issue Weird Wifi issueu/Adorable-Feed-2148•2 days agoWeird Wifi issueSupportSo earlier i was doing work ad then i notice my net went out. it was working before so i check and saw the wifi option was gone.... check and it says their no router detected.... previously this happen i did quick search and it could be a software thing so i updated the software and it restarted my computer and was no longer a problem. and i check and i did have update that i got today...but it wouldn't let me update....okay weird. so i had to shutdown and open my laptop again.could someone tell me what happen and i like not to restart my laptop over this issue again then having to re open all my work.my version is fedora workstation 43
Italian localization not Italian localization Italian localization not Italian localizationu/Majortom_67•9 days agoItalian localization not Italian localizationDiscussion
need some help,shifted to fedora as my first linux from windows,complete beginner,need help with two things need some help,shifted to fedora as my first linux from windows,complete beginner,need help with two thingsu/MediumDrawing247•8 days agoneed some help,shifted to fedora as my first linux from windows,complete beginner,need help with two thingsDiscussionWant to customize it like change the startup animation,change the tab switching animation,make it 4d like I swiped upward then the app menu appears and its in a transparent cube in which i can see swiping the cube right will open this swiping it down to a particular side will do this and such customizationAlso help me install oracle sql develper and oracle 21c express edition on fedora please,need to install it for college
Laptop supports Dolby Atmos but speakers sound horrible on Fedora workstation 43 Laptop supports Dolby Atmos but speakers sound horrible on Fedora workstation 43u/Similar_Reflection75•9 days agoLaptop supports Dolby Atmos but speakers sound horrible on Fedora workstation 43DiscussionI am a new Linux user.Fedora workstation 43 was my first distro, i then changed to kde plasma but kde wasnt for me so I switched back to gnome.I love the UI and yes some things are annoying such as the terminal but I guess I'll get used to it.The one thing I hate is my speakers not working properly. My laptop supports Dolby Atmos and on windows it sounds amazing. Crisp, clear and loud but on fedora it sounds soft, muted and weak.I tried pushing the volume above 100% and "Easy Presets". Both made it louder but also distorted my speakers.Has anyone fixed this issue before? If so please let me know. I'd love to daily drive Linux for personal use but I always end up switching back to windows every time I want to watch a video. During personal time, I do watch a lot of videos so its a pretty major annoyance for me
ClipStudio Paint on Fedora-based distros ClipStudio Paint on Fedora-based distrosu/RC2891•9 days agoClipStudio Paint on Fedora-based distrosSupportHas anyone managed to get CSP working? I see tutorials out there for setting up on Linux but none of it has worked for me. I'd love to hear from anyone who has a working setup.I'm on Nobara technically but surely this shouldn't make a difference.
New to Fedora, my experience and small problem with KDE Plasma New to Fedora, my experience and small problem with KDE Plasmau/ImAcans•2 days agoNew to Fedora, my experience and small problem with KDE PlasmaSupportHi all,After all the shit windows has gone through I've jumped into Fedora for Desktop for the first time. I've used Debian for web servers and the like before, but since I got 5080 that Debian Stable doesn't support I thought I would give Fedora a crack.After lots of guides I got everything except BF6 working which is a big win. Awesome software people have made so my Corsair Keyboards and it's 18G Key macros and lightning works. I even get more FPS in WoW then on Windows. So far I've only had one small issue I haven't been able to solve with Google.I've got three Kernel's on boot, 6.18.8, .7 and .5. Currently with KDE, it's only working on .5On .7 and .8, while all monitors plugged into GPU and Motherboard show up the login screen like normal, the moment I login, the screens go black, but I can move the mouse across all monitors. In the left most monitor, if I put the pointer to the top left corner, I can adjust the Desktop window, create new one etc, but no task bar, or start menu etc. Ctrl + Shift + F3 brings the Terminal up on all monitors.Just wondering if this is due to how cutting edge Fedora is compared to other distros. It's not an issue me staying on 6.18.5, and I've figured out how to save 6.18.5 so the next 6.18.9 doesn't delete it so I can continue to boot fine. If so it's a pretty easy fix just staying on a slightly older kernel until fixes come. I just wanted to know if this is to be expected etc for somethings.
Blocked automation Blocked automationu/Used-Pack-1883•9 days agoBlocked automationSupportCurrently using Fedora 43 KDE and using it to run some automation with Kotlin.Previously when executing the tests KDE would ask me to grant permissions, after the latest updates its not asking me anymore, hence not granting permission blocking my automation.Is there any solution to this?
Migrating home and most of my VM's Migrating home and most of my VM'su/Matrix-Hacker-1337•9 days agoMigrating home and most of my VM'sDiscussionA few days ago I thought "hmm, how about giving Fedora a chance - it may be the only thing I havnt tried for real in the past 20+years linux wise". and holy sh*t. PC has never been so smooth, and those late evenings configuring the system to make it work 100%? no more.Install fedora - use your system - done.Then I thought "hmm, as a long time debian ambassador, how about trying out fedora cloud on one of the VMs. again, holy sh*t. A little thinkering with cloud init in proxmox - start vm - boom, updating and starting.So I though "well, this is convenient, what about that the rest? Oh! its done already!" Is this how it it to use a linux system where a group of people already thought about what you are going to do next?Now 70% of my homelab is running fedora cloud and Im thinking of a pitch for my customers so I can upgrade theirs aswell.Fedora people, why didnt you tell me sooner? its been 20 years!
Utility to fix bluetooth auto connection issue Utility to fix bluetooth auto connection issueu/farukardic•9 days agoUtility to fix bluetooth auto connection issueDiscussionHi all,I want to share my first program with the community in case other people are looking for the same thing as I was.I recently switched to fedora and I am loving it so far. With that said, I did experience some minor issues and had to tinker a bit. One of these issues was that my laptop would not automatically reconnect to my bluetooth speakers after a reboot or when waking up from sleep. When I clicked 'connect' they connected just fine but I quickly grew tired of doing this after every reboot/wake cycle.I create a lightweight utility tool to solve this problem.The tool launches a background service that sends a command to reconnect to select devices after a reboot or sleep cycle.You can add and remove the devices to be monitored as you wish.If you ask why not simply use a autostart command, the reason is that I couldn't get autostart commands to run after a sleep/wake cycle. They only work after a reboot.You can find my program here:https://github.com/omerardic/bluetooth-autoconnect-fixer/tree/mainI am new to coding and this is my first public project so I would appreciate community feedback.
This surprised me. Arch install is bigger than Fedora? This surprised me. Arch install is bigger than Fedora?u/LinuxGamerLife•2 days agoThis surprised me. Arch install is bigger than Fedora?DiscussionThis surprised me. Arch install is bigger than Fedora?r/LinuxGamerLife•2 days agoThis surprised me. Arch install is bigger than Fedora?A minimal install of Fedora with just Cinnamon (3.8GB), is smaller than a minimal install of Arch with just Cinnamon (4.6GB). In a VM, I used archinstall for Arch and Fedora Everything for Fedora.3upvotes·8comments
Beginner Fedora gnome Vs KDE plasma experience Beginner Fedora gnome Vs KDE plasma experienceu/Similar_Reflection75•9 days agoBeginner Fedora gnome Vs KDE plasma experienceDiscussionAlways been a Windows user and decided to try fedora on an external SSD.I downloaded fedora workstation 43 and I liked it but found out that a lot of people recommended KDE so I did a fresh install for KDE.I immediately hated KDE. The font gave me headaches, the gestures did not work, the whole UI made me feel like I got transported back into the early 2000s.I waited around 3 hours before deciding that it's time for KDE plasma to go and for gnome to come back.Gnome looked better, performed better, gave me a fresh new experience and it was exactly what I was looking for.I would want to switch permanently to fedora workstation 43 (gnome) but the lack of apps, especially ms office and a few others makes it really hard for me to make the switch.I use windows 11 as my main OS and I admit it's one of the worst performing UIs ever. But it can run what I need and it does it with ease. I occasionally game and watch Netflix and that's not something fedora is good at, at least not for me.Netflix makes fedora crash for me and even YouTube videos sound weird and grainy. I did increase my volume to over 100% but that just made my speakers sound raspy.My laptop supports Dolby Atmos and on windows watching videos or listening to music is exceptional and I wish fedora gave me the same experience.I wish installing themes was simpler too. I've watched some YouTube videos to customise and did manage to get some done but it feels very tricky. Simply downloading and extracting is not enough because then we need the terminal.If any of you have a better and simpler way of adding themes to my fedora that would be great.Also, a lot of extensions seem to be unsupported. Any idea why that is?I'm comparison fedora workstation 43 uses 11% ram on standby while windows 11 used 45% on standby. I truly hope someday fedora can replace windows entirely
Neal Gompa's Stance On BTRFS/Snapper for Fedora Distributions Neal Gompa's Stance On BTRFS/Snapper for Fedora Distributionsu/linuxhacker01•15 days agoNeal Gompa's Stance On BTRFS/Snapper for Fedora DistributionsDiscussion
If you have wake from sleep issues, try using Displayport If you have wake from sleep issues, try using Displayportu/RazerPSN•4 days agoIf you have wake from sleep issues, try using DisplayportDiscussionI had issues with my PC giving me a black screen 50% of the time i tried to wake up from sleep (Nvidia gpu), switched from HDMI to Displayport and the issue seems to be goneIf you have the same issue try, maybe this could help
Latest AMD graphics drivers Latest AMD graphics driversu/Useful_External_5270•9 days agoLatest AMD graphics driversSupportHi allI just recently switched to an AMD 9060 xt.  I see that I'm using mesa 25.2.7 on fedora 43.  Is that correct or do I have to install something else like with Nvidia cards.I see there is a driver on and site.How often does Mesa get updated.  I see it's away up on 25.3.4 but 25.2.7 dates from NovThanks
What to do if latest update bored your system? What to do if latest update bored your system?u/Icy-Astronomer-9814•4 days agoWhat to do if latest update bored your system?Discussion
Fedora vs Alma vs Rocky Fedora vs Alma vs Rockyu/not_me_-_2024•2 days agoFedora vs Alma vs RockyDiscussionQuestion for anyone really,I run Fedora & Rocky server platforms, but has anyone compared both to Alma?What are the pros and cons & would anyone consider Alma over either, or both?
Fedora 43: General System Stuttering Every Few Seconds Fedora 43: General System Stuttering Every Few Secondsu/iAhMedZz•9 days agoFedora 43: General System Stuttering Every Few SecondsSupportHi, I just switched to Fedora 43 Gnome from Debian 12. I noticed right after the installation and configuring the drivers that Gnome is much faster on Fedora, but there is this issue where the entire PC just stutters for few milliseconds every few seconds, and it's becoming annoying with time.I checked my CPU for potential spikes, but the utilization is sub 5-10%, and the issue happens regardless of the load on the system, and this didn't happen on Debian before.I'd appreciate any help on this. Something tells me maybe it could be Wayland. I kinda like how the OS seems generally smooth with Wayland, until this issue happens. I was on X11 on Debian.System Information:Fedora Version: 43 Workstation Edition - Stable - Gnome 49.3Kernel Version: 6.18.7-200.fc43.x86_64Windowing System: WaylandCPU:  Intel i7-10700GPU: Nvidia RTX 3060 - Driver v580.119.02 (proprietary)Memory: 48 GB DDR4journalctl -b -p errdoes not show any meaningful error related to this issue, just other errors on specific appsThis is the output of the recent longs ofjournalctl -b | grep -E "Frame has assigned frame counter|vaEndPicture failed|gnome-shell.*JS ERROR"(ChatGPT told me might be useful):Feb 03 17:27:48 pc-fedora gnome-shell[4113]: 0x1800004 (All Coupons - X Workspace): Frame has assigned frame counter but no frame drawn time Feb 03 17:28:05 pc-fedora gnome-shell[4113]: JS ERROR: TypeError: event.get_device is not a function Feb 03 17:50:37 pc-fedora gnome-shell[4113]: 0x3a00004 (Olivia Dean - So Easy (To Fall In Love)): Frame has assigned frame counter but no frame drawn time Feb 03 17:56:25 pc-fedora gnome-shell[4113]: JS ERROR: TypeError: event.get_device is not a function Feb 03 20:05:19 pc-fedora gnome-shell[4113]: 0x2200004 (GitHub Desktop): Frame has assigned frame counter but no frame drawn time Feb 03 20:27:26 pc-fedora gnome-shell[4113]: 0x3a00015 (Unsaved Image 1* - Pinta): Frame has assigned frame counter but no frame drawn time Feb 03 21:42:37 pc-fedora gnome-shell[4113]: JS ERROR: TypeError: event.get_device is not a function Feb 03 21:45:26 pc-fedora brave-browser.desktop[126603]: [126643:325199:0203/214526.732801:ERROR:media/gpu/vaapi/vaapi_wrapper.cc:3514] vaEndPicture failed, VA error: internal decoding error Feb 03 21:46:04 pc-fedora gnome-shell[4113]: JS ERROR: TypeError: event.get_device is not a function Feb 03 21:46:05 pc-fedora gnome-shell[4113]: 0x2200004 (GitHub Desktop): Frame has assigned frame counter but no frame drawn time Feb 03 21:46:55 pc-fedora gnome-shell[4113]: JS ERROR: TypeError: can't access property "get_transition", this.actor is null Feb 03 22:08:27 pc-fedora gnome-shell[4113]: JS ERROR: Error: Impossible to remove untracked message
Fedora 43 KDE hang after installing X11 and log out Fedora 43 KDE hang after installing X11 and log outu/old_Anton•5 days agoFedora 43 KDE hang after installing X11 and log outSupportAnyone successfully use fedora KDE in X11? It was fine in wayland and when I installed x11 I could still do things fine. Only once logged out then screen went black, restart to try recovery and still get same black screen before I can even boot or login into fedora.
Lenovo and Fedora  pre-sales phone call. Lenovo and Fedora  pre-sales phone call.u/wjrasmussen•9 days agoLenovo and Fedora  pre-sales phone call.SupportThis is about a phone call I just had with Lenovo presales.  They said they we can no longer get fedora and that fedora isn't supported officially.When did this happen?  Before spending money, I just want to make sure it will work and that drivers are supported.Was the sale person wrong about the what he said on the call?
Help Needed - Failed Attempt to Install Fedora Help Needed - Failed Attempt to Install Fedorau/gcconspiracy•9 days agoHelp Needed - Failed Attempt to Install FedoraSupportWell, I’m hoping you guys can help me. I’ve just spent the entire evening trying to install the Fedora Sway Spin on my desktop with no luck.Usually the live usb just hangs before I even get into the live environment.Twice I was able to get into the live environment (no idea what changed, but I got in), and I was even able to run liveinstall, but then it hung on shutdown and refused to boot up again.I’ve tried writing the live iso with Fedora Media Writer, Balena Etcher, KDE image writer, and Ventoy (both UEFI Ventoy and Legacy).I’ve tried it with secure boot on and off.I’ve tried it with multiple usb sticks in multiple drives.I’m fairly new to Linux, and I’ve exhausted all of my usual tricks.Any help would be sincerely appreciated.I’ve really been enjoying Fedora sway on my laptop, and I’d love to be able to load it on my desktop as well.
Fedora Games Lab Approved To Switch To KDE Plasma, Become A Better Linux Gaming Showcase Fedora Games Lab Approved To Switch To KDE Plasma, Become A Better Linux Gaming Showcaseu/Conscious-Walk9911•27 days agoFedora Games Lab Approved To Switch To KDE Plasma, Become A Better Linux Gaming ShowcaseNews"Back in December we reported on drafted plans for revitalizing Fedora Games Lab to be a modern Linux gaming showcase. This Fedora Labs initiative has featured some open-source games paired with an Xfce desktop while moving forward they are looking to better position it as a modern Linux gaming showcase." The Fedora Engineering and Steering Committee (FESCo) signed off this week on the Fedora 44 change proposal for overhauling Fedora Games Lab. Rather than the Xfce desktop, the KDE Plasma 6.6 desktop will be in use. Going with KDE Plasma allows for better Wayland support and enjoying all of the improvements made to Plasma thanks to Valve's sponsorship and other contributions.
Saved my old gaming pc! Saved my old gaming pc!u/efernie•19 days agoSaved my old gaming pc!Discussion
Window tiling manager with a decent system tray Window tiling manager with a decent system trayu/Ill-Cut3335•9 days agoWindow tiling manager with a decent system trayDiscussionWindow tiling manager with a decent system trayr/linuxquestions•9 days agoWindow tiling manager with a decent system trayI'm on Fedora with Cinnamon DE. I've been considering switching to a tiling manager as I'm more of a keyboard person but there's one huge thing holding me back — the system tray.PictureMine on Cinnamon is simple but very nice-looking and functional. I have:lock key indicators,current weather,GPaste,Bluetooth,Wifi,battery,sound (really neat widget),date + calendar.I've seen a few TM setups and they typically had a (sorry to say) crappy-looking top bar with emojis instead of image icons and the volume emoji would just open pavucontrols on click. Is there a way to have decent system tray equivalent on a TM, both fuctional and good-looking?5upvotes·4comments
do you use tui applications? do you use tui applications?[deleted]•16 days agodo you use tui applications?Discussion
Why did you choose Fedora? Why did you choose Fedora?u/skyber22•7 days agoWhy did you choose Fedora?DiscussionI'm currently using Ubuntu KDE! But certain things are making me change my mind and switch to another distribution! I've heard a lot about Fedora.Is Fedora similar to Ubuntu in terms of its command-line interface?If not, why did you choose it?
Fedora Silverblue and Devbox/NixOS Fedora Silverblue and Devbox/NixOSu/RicoLycan•10 days agoFedora Silverblue and Devbox/NixOSDiscussionHey, Arch linux refugee here.I swapped my workstation to Fedora Silverblue. Main reasons were to more easily follow best practices (AppArmor, SELinux etc) without having to spend hours and hours configuring my system.So far I'm really happy with how atomic Fedora works for me. But I'm a bit torn on the Toolbx situation. I think Toolbx in itself is a great tool and will surely use it for my pet projects. But I wonder how it would work in an environment where I work together with developers on different platforms (MacOS/Windows).In my previous job/team we used Devbox/NixOS with the benefit of everyone running the same package versions and having libraries without having to run a lot of setup scripts. Furthermore I liked how well it integrated with the native environment using direnv on MacOS.I'm wondering if I should follow this same approach or if there is a better alternative that also offers seamless integration and library management. Any advice or suggestions would be greatly appreciated!
WINE question WINE questionu/bionicjoe•2 days agoWINE questionSupportI want to play an exe game, but it runs like crap on WINE. Too slow to play.Balatro on Steam takes a bit longer to load, but runs just fine.I've never had any luck with WINE really.Just a configuration thing?Better emulator to try?Or a create a Windows VM?2019 HP Laptop32 GB memoryhttps://linux-hardware.org/?probe=ed77ede1e3(HDD issue is a false-positive)Game is free. Awesome original Zelda remake.https://gamejolt.com/games/jzelda_woohoo/1043660
kernel-6.18.9-100.fc42 freezes at boot kernel-6.18.9-100.fc42 freezes at bootu/MakeTopSite•5 days agokernel-6.18.9-100.fc42 freezes at bootSupportBooting a command listEFI stub: WARNING: Unable to unprotect memory range [384..., 384...]: 8000 ... 009AMD Ryzen AI 9 HX 370 w/ Radeon 890M, NVIDIA Corporation AD107M [GeForce RTX 4060 Max-Q / MobileAny other solution than update BIOS please ?
Backlight not working on Asus ProArt P16 Backlight not working on Asus ProArt P16u/halomach•6 days agoBacklight not working on Asus ProArt P16SupportSo I just upgraded my laptop and installed Fedora on it, and after setting everything up almost everything works fine. The only issues are that when I startup my laptop, the keyboard isn't functional at all and the backlight IS on for about 10-15 seconds. Then the keyboard backlight turns off and the keyboard becomes functional allowing me to login and use the computer as normal. How can I fix this?​​​​​
Fedora 43 upgrade still using 42 repos Fedora 43 upgrade still using 42 reposu/Useful_External_5270•10 days agoFedora 43 upgrade still using 42 reposHaving just done update to fc43 using discovery it is showing in DND to still be using the fc42 repos.  All 43 packages are marked unknown.  Any idea how I can resolve?
Am I a user of Fedora? Am I a user of Fedora?u/Rude-Shirt-6024•2 days agoAm I a user of Fedora?DiscussionAm I a user of Fedora using Nobara?
Wi-fi Unavailbale Wi-fi Unavailbaleu/daksh__verma•9 days agoWi-fi UnavailbaleDiscussionJust installed Fedora 43.Getting Wi-fi unavailable.Checked/Did followingAdapter is visisbleBIOS setting is correctRestarted Network manager servicesudo dnf upgradenothing worked.Adapter  - RealtekLaptop - LenovoPreviously had windows. Didn't face any wifi issuesPlease help
Fedora workstation 43 logs in automatically after start up Fedora workstation 43 logs in automatically after start upu/Similar_Reflection75•9 days agoFedora workstation 43 logs in automatically after start upSupportDidn't have this problem a while back but upon start up instead of asking for a password it jumps directly into the desktop. Any idea how to fix that?
AppIndicators not showing up on Dash To Panel AppIndicators not showing up on Dash To Panelu/TheButteredCrust•9 days agoAppIndicators not showing up on Dash To PanelSupportHello!For some reason, the app indicators are not appearing on my Dash To Panel.However they do appear when enabling the original Gnome-Shell top panel. Any ideas how to fix this issue?Haven't found another thread to address the issue.Image attached for reference.
Help with black screen Help with black screenu/Ecstatic_Bridge_546•3 days agoHelp with black screenDiscussionI used KDE Plasma for one week. After a recent update, a serious issue appeared.When I log in, the screen turns black. I can switch to TTY and run startplasma, and the desktop loads. After logout or reboot, the same black screen appears again.Using TTY every time is not practical. Because of this, I switched to Zorin OS.If someone can explain what causes this issue and provide a permanent fix, I will move back to KDE Plasma.
I need to add an app to the Fedora 43 live image... I need to add an app to the Fedora 43 live image...u/Laurence5905•7 days agoI need to add an app to the Fedora 43 live image...SupportI want a copy of the Fedora bootable USB live image, but which has Restic installed on it.How do I do this?  I can't boot the USB stick and install Restic there, because it boots into read-only mode.  So I need somehow to edit the image, I guess?  I have no idea how to do this.My goal is to have a bootable USB stick from which I can make a bare-metal recovery to a new SSD, no Internet connection required.Any help will be appreciated.(Forgive me if this is a repeated question, but I searched and couldn't find anything close to what I was looking for.)
Why does Fedora randomly disconnect my Wi-Fi? Why does Fedora randomly disconnect my Wi-Fi?u/FireEatingDragons•3 days agoWhy does Fedora randomly disconnect my Wi-Fi?Support
Fedora setup always crashes after selecting the time zone Fedora setup always crashes after selecting the time zoneu/blaues_axolotl•12 days agoFedora setup always crashes after selecting the time zoneSupport
Blackscreen booting Fedora for the First time Blackscreen booting Fedora for the First timeu/Recent_Bug5691•9 days agoBlackscreen booting Fedora for the First timeSupportHelloI issued a post on monday asking about compatibility with Fedora + KDE on NVIDIA GPU. I installed Fedora today, followed the usual Stepps and it boots perfectly from the flash drive and recognizes all my Hardware including the GPU. After wiping my harddrive and installing Fedora I rebooted and now I get a blackscreen.Tried troubleshooting a bit with Google but didnt find anything helpful.EDIT: The Flash Drive Boots in full resolution with 144hz so the NVIDIA GPU seems to be workingDo you guys have any ideas?
Video lagging issue on Fedora KDE Plasma Video lagging issue on Fedora KDE Plasmau/Huge-Complaint1779•10 days agoVideo lagging issue on Fedora KDE PlasmaSupportHi everyone!I have an issue with watching YT videos lately. It seems FPS that fps on the video are very low and sometimes I'm watching a sideshow instead of and actual video. Do you know how can I fix this?OS: Fedora Linux 43 (KDE Plasma Desktop Edition) x86_64CPU: Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-7700T (8) @ 3.80 GHzGPU 1: NVIDIA GeForce 930MX [Discrete]GPU 2: Intel HD Graphics 630 @ 1.15 GHz [Integrated]
How can I upgrade the packages on a laptop that cannot connect to the internet possibly due to very old packages / old kernel? How can I upgrade the packages on a laptop that cannot connect to the internet possibly due to very old packages / old kernel?u/personman44•9 days agoHow can I upgrade the packages on a laptop that cannot connect to the internet possibly due to very old packages / old kernel?SupportI have a different computer that can connect to the internet. Is there something I can put onto a USB that I can then plug into the laptop and use to upgrade packages? Hopefully connecting works afterwards.Laptop currently on: Fedora KDE 43, kernel version 6.17.1-300.fc43.x86_64 (64-bit)Edit: The full contextis that months ago, when the laptop had Fedora 42 KDE, I upgraded packages withsudo dnf upgrade --refresh, and upgraded to Fedora 43 KDE. Unfortunately after the upgrade, the laptop just started staying black after entering the LUKS password. I gave up on the laptop for a few months. About a month ago, I tried a reinstallation, and the problem persisted.I wasinformedthat it might be a kernel regression issue, and they gave me a temporary solution that involved editing GRUB settings to removequietandrhgbfrom kernel options and booting, and said that hopefully upgrading packages gives me a new kernel that fixes the issue.And that's when I learned that I cannot connect to the internet, either with wifi or with an ethernet USB-A adapter. I also sometimes get some kind of KDE wallet authorization request popup when I'm trying to connect, and it fails even when I type the correct password. Not sure what KDE wallet has to do with internet connecting.
Update error Update erroru/damclub-hooligan•9 days agoUpdate errorSupportDo not know if this the right place when I type inr/bazziteyou automatically get re-rerouted to f/fedora.Anyway I mentioned I use Bazzite. Just tried to update the system, when I get this error:Flatpack System packagesInfo: (pinned) runtime.org.gnome.platform branch 47 is end-of-life, with reason: The Gnome 47 runtime is no longer supported as of October 15, 2025. Please ask your application developer to migrate to a supported platform.Any tips?
bluetooth problem bluetooth problemu/darcenate101•9 days agobluetooth problemScreenshoti have installed fedora on my hp laptop and everything was workign fine. suddenly none of my devices would connect throu bluetooth and the it saying that i have no bluetoth adapters installed despite my laptop alr coming wiht it and it was working just a few hours prior.
battery thereshold battery theresholdu/UnViandanteSperduto•9 days agobattery theresholdSupportHow can i limit the battery charge to 80%? I have Fedora 43 KDE Plasma and the laptop Lenovo Ideapad 3 slim built with an Intel Core 7 240H.
Laptop stopped charging all of a sudden Laptop stopped charging all of a suddenu/ShoeSensei•6 days agoLaptop stopped charging all of a suddenSupportHi guys. My laptop stopped charging all of a sudden and I can't figure out why. The battery charge is stuck at 0% when plugged.The laptop is a Lenovo ThinkPad P14s Gen 5 AMD running Fedora Linux 43 (Workstation Edition).So far I've tried:Turning off, unplugging, and pressing the power button for a minuteLetting the laptop rest unplugged for more than 6 hoursAlso, I am unable to remove the battery for now.The commandupower -i /org/freedesktop/UPower/devices/battery_BATreturns:native-path:          BAT0   power supply:         yes   updated:              Sat 07 Feb 2026 09:36:17 AM EST (2 seconds ago)   has history:          yes   has statistics:       yes   battery     present:             yes     rechargeable:        yes     state:               charging     warning-level:       none     energy:              0 Wh     energy-empty:        0 Wh     energy-full:         0 Wh     energy-full-design:  0 Wh     energy-rate:         0 W     charge-cycles:       N/A     percentage:          0%     charge-start-threshold:        75%     charge-end-threshold:          80%     charge-threshold-enabled:      yes     charge-threshold-supported:    yes     icon-name:          'battery-caution-charging-symbolic'The power statistic app looks like:Could it be a software issue?Could I get a hand, please?
Help! HP fingerprint with fedora. Help! HP fingerprint with fedora.u/Shavrka•10 days agoHelp! HP fingerprint with fedora.DiscussionSo I got my new laptop HP EliteBook 830 g7 x360 touchscreen. And ofc I install Fedora 43 GNOME DE. And I would love to be able to use my fingerprint scanner if it is possible, so I need help if someone know how to set the thing to work. I will be very grateful
All the apps on one display are frozen ?  All other displays/apps work fine ? (F43, KDE, X11, Nvidia) All the apps on one display are frozen ?  All other displays/apps work fine ? (F43, KDE, X11, Nvidia)u/yycTechGuy•2 days agoAll the apps on one display are frozen ?  All other displays/apps work fine ? (F43, KDE, X11, Nvidia)SupportMy computer has 4 displays.  On one display the 3 apps and widgets on it are frozen - they aren't updating or responding to mouse clicks.   The apps and everything else on the rest of the displays work fine.Did I somehow freeze one display ?I have multiple virtual desktops.  When I change desktops the other apps respond instantly but the apps on the "frozen" display update noticeably slower.What's going on with my computer ?  Is it possible to lock a single display in KDE ?Thanks$ kinfo Operating System: Fedora Linux 43 KDE Plasma Version: 6.5.5 KDE Frameworks Version: 6.22.0 Qt Version: 6.10.1 Kernel Version: 6.18.8-200.fc43.x86_64 (64-bit) Graphics Platform: X11 Processors: 16 × AMD Ryzen 7 5700G with Radeon Graphics Memory: 64 GiB of RAM (62.7 GiB usable) Graphics Processor: NVIDIA GeForce GTX 1080UpdateI have no idea what happened.  I rebooted and all is well.Earlier in the day I removed a virtual desktop by right clicking on Pager and selecting Remove Virtual Desktop.  I didn't seem to remove the desktop I selected or maybe it was my imagination.   Maybe this contributed to the frozen apps on the display ?
How to get 27c6:550a Goodix fingerprint reader to work on Fedora Linux 43 How to get 27c6:550a Goodix fingerprint reader to work on Fedora Linux 43u/Individual_Order_468•10 days agoHow to get 27c6:550a Goodix fingerprint reader to work on Fedora Linux 43DiscussionI just switched to fedora from windows on my Thinkpad E14. How do i get this 27c6:550a sensor working?Just to check I tried ,sudo dnf copr enable antiderivative/libfprint-tod-goodix-0.0.9sudo dnf install libfprint-tod-goodixbut i guess it failed because of older version as its not maintained. Fedora 43 comes with libfprint 1.94.9 so it didn't work. Any other custom build driver to try which might work?
Stuck in the starting screen Stuck in the starting screenu/Hiro018•1 mo. agoStuck in the starting screenDiscussion
Mac User Switching to Fedora Mac User Switching to Fedorau/HxChris•28 days agoMac User Switching to FedoraSupportI’ve been a lifelong Mac user, but have recently gotten the itch to venture outside the Apple ecosystem.  I have a friend who suggested Fedora as it’s visually similar to Apple, but looking at it, I feel like I have zero idea what I’m doing.  I’m not particularly computer savvy beyond Apple, so could anyone point me in a direction for learning how to use Fedora?
never stop the grind never stop the grindu/Tea_Up_Wire•10 days agonever stop the grindDiscussion
Fedora Workstation 43 image is corrupted Fedora Workstation 43 image is corruptedu/LittleRainC•2 days agoFedora Workstation 43 image is corruptedSupport
Alternative calendar tool for Cinnamon Alternative calendar tool for Cinnamonu/DrPiwi•10 days agoAlternative calendar tool for CinnamonDiscussionAlternative calendar toolr/linuxmint•10 days agoAlternative calendar toolI do not know if this is the best place to ask but the Cinnamon Reddit is kinda slow not much happens there and this is closely related.I run Cinnamon 6.4.12 on Fedora 43 and I have a problem with the calendar.Well, a problem is stating it mildly.Whenever I want to add something to my calendar I do that by opening the calendar panel applet go to the specific data and then either click the long date at the top of the left pane or the "No Events" button and then Gnome Calendar opens.And there lies the problem. Gnome-calendar!  It is broken in so many ways it is useless.  It does not jump to the date. it doubles events on syncing It has the worst UX on ANY calendar app and the devs are hell bent on not fixing bugs, keep on changing the workflow to even less intuitive patterns and removing even more features and config options.My question is two-fold #1.  is there a Cinnamon or mate like alternative and #2. Can the calender applet be thought to call that app instead of GC, and how?Regards,2upvotes·10comments
I need help I need helpu/-_-Nie-_-•14 days agoI need helpSupport
Does kvantum play nicely with Plasma 6.5 on Fedora Kinoite? Does kvantum play nicely with Plasma 6.5 on Fedora Kinoite?u/Weak-Operation-9888•10 days agoDoes kvantum play nicely with Plasma 6.5 on Fedora Kinoite?Supportsee title
Which Laptop and Dock Would Be Best To Purchase Which Laptop and Dock Would Be Best To Purchaseu/dual290x•2 days agoWhich Laptop and Dock Would Be Best To PurchaseDiscussionI currently own both the Lenovo Thinkpad A485 and T480. I am looking at getting a Lenovo dock (link found below) to run one of the laptops as a desktop (but also ready to be grabbed and on the go). My setup will include a mouse and keyboard, two monitors, and various usb peripherals. Which laptop would work best for my setup? Would the dock that I included below work okay with Fedora 42/43? I would much prefer to use the A485 as it is in better shape and can run light games better than my T480. Plus the A485 is already running Fedora 42. I have read, though, that some usb docks do not run dual monitors well and that Thunderbolt is better supported.I bought the T480 last year because the Windows AMD gpu driver on my A485 was causing issues with running two monitors. After this spring semester, I will be going strictly Linux as I will no longer need Windows for school.If there is a better supported dock you would suggest for my needs, please feel free to suggest one.Many thanks for your time.https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B079NM5JK4/ref=ox_sc_act_title_6?smid=A1F5IY2OMWD7U2&psc=1
Need some recommendations Need some recommendationsu/Content-Invite-2845•4 days agoNeed some recommendationsSupportI'm doing a project for uni and I need some tools for creating uml, use cases diagrams, etc.Please recommend some apps that are free. (I was using StarUML on Windows)I
From GNOME, I've switched to KDE Plasma. No problem. Now that I've upgraded from Fedora 42 to 43, it messed up my laptop's wireless network. Has anyone been in this situation before? I need some help. From GNOME, I've switched to KDE Plasma. No problem. Now that I've upgraded from Fedora 42 to 43, it messed up my laptop's wireless network. Has anyone been in this situation before? I need some help.u/Kazziinging•1 mo. agoFrom GNOME, I've switched to KDE Plasma. No problem. Now that I've upgraded from Fedora 42 to 43, it messed up my laptop's wireless network. Has anyone been in this situation before? I need some help.Discussion
unable to download isos unable to download isosu/filterCoffeeForever•10 days agounable to download isosDiscussionhttps://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/alt/live-respins/?C=S;O=Danubis firewall randomly triggers in between download and fails. Cannot resume the download. Any workaround?
Hibernation Issue in Fedora Workstation Hibernation Issue in Fedora Workstationu/vastavikvineet•10 days agoHibernation Issue in Fedora WorkstationSupportHi everyone, I’m looking for help with getting proper hibernation working on Fedora Workstation 43. I’ve been trying for several days to make it behave like Windows hibernate, but I keep running into the same issue and I’m not sure what else to try.My setup is a Lenovo Legion 7i laptop with an Intel i9 processor, integrated Intel graphics, and an NVIDIA RTX 4060 GPU. I’m running Fedora Workstation 43 with GNOME on Wayland. The system itself works perfectly for everyday use, but hibernation has been a constant problem. What I want to achieve is very simple in theory: I want to be able to work in Fedora with apps open like Firefox, Spotify, terminals, and document viewers, then hibernate the system, boot into Windows for a while, and later come back to Fedora and have everything restored exactly as I left it. Basically the same experience that Windows hibernate provides.Right now, the behavior is always the same. When I trigger hibernation, the laptop powers off correctly, so it looks like the hibernation image is being created. I can then boot into Windows with no issues. However, when I later boot back into Fedora and select it from the boot menu, the screen goes black, the system freezes, and I have to hold the power button to shut it down. After forcing a reboot, Fedora starts as a fresh session with nothing restored.I’ve already tried many things. I created a dedicated swap partition specifically for hibernation and configured Fedora to use it for resume. I verified that the system reports hibernation as allowed. I tried various NVIDIA-related tweaks and services that are supposed to help with suspend and resume. I also experimented with bypassing NVIDIA entirely to force Fedora to use only the Intel integrated graphics, thinking that might make resume more reliable. I even tried GNOME session-restore extensions as a fallback, but those obviously don’t replace real hibernation. From what I’ve read and from the logs I’ve seen, it looks like the failure is probably related to NVIDIA graphics and Wayland not restoring properly after resume. I’m also unsure whether Secure Boot being enabled might be interfering with hibernation on Fedora.Any guidance from people who have dealt with this on Fedora would be really appreciated.Thanks in advance
changing the grub sequence in fedora 43 changing the grub sequence in fedora 43u/hlebushe_k•10 days agochanging the grub sequence in fedora 43Support
Can't install Fedora KDE on VMWare or Virtualbox Can't install Fedora KDE on VMWare or Virtualboxu/skatersamaa•10 days agoCan't install Fedora KDE on VMWare or VirtualboxSupport
Freeze issue Freeze issueu/TackleWild2101•11 days agoFreeze issueDiscussion
Network and boot time issues with Fedora 43 KDE Network and boot time issues with Fedora 43 KDEu/ZazaLeNounours•2 days agoNetwork and boot time issues with Fedora 43 KDESupportHello.A bit of background : about a year ago, I finally decided to ditch Windows 11 for Linux. I chose to go with CachyOS. The first months went great but over time, the OS seemed to go worse with new issues appearing all the time, mostly related to random drops of the wired network connection, and not being able to go out of sleep.So a couple months ago, I decided to reinstall the OS completely. This time, I went with Fedora KDE. First weeks went great, with no issue whatsoever. But over the past couple weeks, things started to go bad again : the boot time is now very slow, about 1.5-2 minutes to arrive on the login screen instead of 20-30 seconds, and the network connection started to randomly drop again, the only solution being to restart the computer.I think I keep my OS mostly clean, basically I install nothing out of Steam (for games) or Discover, and I have very few apps installed out Discover anyway, it's mostly used for system update.I have no idea where these issues come from, but they make using my PC much less enjoyable every day.Any idea where these could come from ? What info could I provide to help determine what causes this ?
Windows 11 VM - Boxes or Virt? Windows 11 VM - Boxes or Virt?u/DarthGW•4 days agoWindows 11 VM - Boxes or Virt?Supportim planning to run a simple Win11 VM to use Office365 on Fedora as a non-technical user ( i dont code or run servers)i came across a recent guide to run W11 on KVM (https://sysguides.com/install-windows-11-on-kvm) and also a recent youtube video which seemed to show a relatively fuss-free process to install W11 on Gnome Boxes ( no need to run regedit hacks on Bypassing W11 checks)i am curious to know if there were recent updates made to Boxes for W11 compatible that eliminate the need for regedit hacks? if I wanted to gain the maximum performance out of W11 VM, should it be on Boxes or Virt?
How do I downgrade to wine 10.20? How do I downgrade to wine 10.20?u/Hexxhoot•10 days agoHow do I downgrade to wine 10.20?SupportI really need to get 10.20 to get a program working through bottles, but I can't seem to find a solution.Anyone know?
Fedora 43 problemas Fedora 43 problemasu/andrewmurdockpy•2 days agoFedora 43 problemasSupportesta muy buena, realmente muy agil, el incoveniente que tengo es que me pide instalar el repositorio gpl que ya tengo instalado y lo ultimo de nvidia. o algo hice mal o algo vino mal en mi instalcion, ahora estoy re instalando pero agil de verdad, tengo drama con google se queda a veces trabado en pantalla negra y se laguea, que deberia considerar.openglcrhome y chormium probe, me da lo mismo en ambos por separado el pantallazo negro. reinstale e hice de 0 actualizar paquetes. como soluciono
(NEED HELP) unable to install Linux on my infinix zero book ultra( i9 13900h). screen truns off every 10 to 15 seconds. (NEED HELP) unable to install Linux on my infinix zero book ultra( i9 13900h). screen truns off every 10 to 15 seconds.u/Critical-Salt-3007•4 days ago(NEED HELP) unable to install Linux on my infinix zero book ultra( i9 13900h). screen truns off every 10 to 15 seconds.Supportinstalled Fedora on my Infinix ZeroBook 13 Ultra (i9-13900H), but after boot the screen turns off every 10–15 seconds. I tried several fixes and troubleshooting steps, but nothing solved the issue. The only thing that works is booting with thenomodesetkernel parameter, which stops the screen from turning off. Because of this, I think it’s related to the graphics driver or hardware acceleration. Can someone help me find a permanent solution without usingnomodesetas it is not the long term solution?
Extremely saturated colours on flatpaks after locking the screen or being minimized for a while Extremely saturated colours on flatpaks after locking the screen or being minimized for a whileu/Guilleack•11 days agoExtremely saturated colours on flatpaks after locking the screen or being minimized for a whileSupport
I'm considering switching to Fedora, do I go with Workstation or Silverblue/Kinoite? I'm considering switching to Fedora, do I go with Workstation or Silverblue/Kinoite?u/An_UnknownGuitarist•24 days agoI'm considering switching to Fedora, do I go with Workstation or Silverblue/Kinoite?SupportHey, y'all! I am considering moving from Debian to Fedora, but I'm wondering if I should go with the normal/casual Workstation or Silverblue and Kinoite. I just want to use the OS for Daily Driving, studying and gaming, if y'all could help me choose which one to go with, I'd be grateful!Thanks in advance.
bluetooth issues, "sound quit unexpectedly" bluetooth issues, "sound quit unexpectedly"u/cranberrie_sauce•11 days agobluetooth issues, "sound quit unexpectedly"Support
3 options in Grub, what are they for? 3 options in Grub, what are they for?u/FiftyEuros•26 days ago3 options in Grub, what are they for?Support
The Wayland-based RDP server (a.k.a. Remote Login) breaks most client apps The Wayland-based RDP server (a.k.a. Remote Login) breaks most client appsu/Smart-Simple9938•11 days agoThe Wayland-based RDP server (a.k.a. Remote Login) breaks most client appsSupportEnabling Remote Login/Remote Desktop, in which one can create a remote session and login to it makes use of the RDP protocol, which isn't new. What does seem to be new is that the Wayland implementation of it seems to be hard-coded and hostile to most client software. Upon negotiating a connection, the session immediately disconnects.There appears to be only one workaround, and it only seems to work on Microsoft's Windows App (at least on macOS). Export a connection to an RDP file, edit it in a text editor to change "use redirection server name:i:0" to "use redirection server name:i:1", and then re-import it.Has anyone else encountered this problem and found a better solution than this?
Any good guide for newbies? Any good guide for newbies?u/Few-Conference-9713•11 days agoAny good guide for newbies?SupportI have consider myself to have above average computer skills and want to get into linux, I tried last October after windows 10 EOL but It was quite confusing for me since I got out of Microslop comfort zone. Can anyone offer any good guides since the more time I spend on win10 the more I am at risk. Please?
I'm racking my brain trying to figure out the simplest way to move Fedora Partition and gain extra disk space. I'm racking my brain trying to figure out the simplest way to move Fedora Partition and gain extra disk space.u/g2wesy•10 days agoI'm racking my brain trying to figure out the simplest way to move Fedora Partition and gain extra disk space.SupportThese are the pieces of the puzzle:- 2 disks: one is Fedora and the other is Windows with a partition for sharing data.- On the Fedora disk, sdb1 is empty, and sdb2 contains a copy of the /home folder.- On partition (sdb5), there's the / (containing files not found in home) and the home directory. The problem is that this partition is on the right, so I can't add more space to it.Since there are many ways to manipulate partitions, I'm racking my brain trying to figure out the simplest way to move sdb5 and gain extra disk space.
Speech to text tool ? Speech to text tool ?u/yycTechGuy•2 days agoSpeech to text tool ?DiscussionSpeech to text tool ?r/kde•2 days agoSpeech to text tool ?What is everyone using for speech to text in KDE ?  How is it working ?UpdateI installed the Ibus Speech to Text package and the VOSK speech recognition model.  It seems to works very well.  I'll test it for a few more days and then share how to install it as well as some tips for getting the most out of it.5upvotes·6comments
Support for non-linux software Support for non-linux softwareu/takulx•4 days agoSupport for non-linux softwareSupportHi folks,Last year I installed Fedora on my 10 year old Thinkpad and (mostly*) enjoyed using it for basic tasks. While I like the os I miss support for Apple’s ecosystem (esp. Notes, Drive, Mail, and Calendar) and other unofficial apps (like Zoom) are quite buggy.Even though I‘ll never get the full Apple experience without buying a Mac, I could at least use the official Windows apps for iCloud Drive to make life somehow easier.There are so many ways to use Windows apps in Linux, is there any „preferred“ or „recommended“ one for Fedora? I don’t need a full virtual windows os, only some apps which just don’t work for me in Linux.I don’t want to mess around with googling over hours and copy pasting 20 terminal commands to get a workaround ready until the next update breaks it again - I want my home pc to just work as I already sit 10 hours per day in front of a pc at work solving problems, I won’t do the same at home - which probably means I‘d be more of a mac user I think…*mostly because I occasionally find strange bugs like the keyboard-layout on the lockscreen changes without reason, I sometimes cannot update apps from the store w/o error messages, apps like Firefox randomly just don’t open on click,…
Im thinking of switching to fedora from linux mint Im thinking of switching to fedora from linux mintu/Fun_Drive_9330•1 mo. agoIm thinking of switching to fedora from linux mintDiscussionI have gotten bored of mint and its cinammon DE, i think fedora would be good because of its up to date packages and a more vanilla gnome experience but i want to know something. I see alot of tutorials and apps assume your using a debian based system. Like commands, .deb files etc, how do you guys deal with this
LibreOffice 26.2 question LibreOffice 26.2 questionu/virgilash•3 days agoLibreOffice 26.2 questionDiscussionJust curious about this - I checked LibreOffice 26.2 on Bodhi and I couldn't find any entry for Fedora 43, should I understand that we will get that (26.2 update) with Fedora 44?
Installing xanmod or other performance kernels on fedora ws Installing xanmod or other performance kernels on fedora wsu/Fun_Drive_9330•2 days agoInstalling xanmod or other performance kernels on fedora wsSupportI want to try and install the xanmod or zen kernel but none of those are natively supported on fedora and i cant find guides online. anything i can do?
How can I learn more about Linux? How can I learn more about Linux?u/Visible-Reason9593•16 days agoHow can I learn more about Linux?DiscussionHey! I'm a 17-year-old italian guys who's been using Linux for a few months and, after trying a few distros since October, I settled on Fedora KDE a couple of months ago.I'm now familiar with Linux, but only for everyday use, which is actually quite light (mainly Brave browser and some other lightweight software).I almost never use the terminal, and I don't do anything heavy on the computer, but I'd like to learn more about Linux and how to use it better.**********************************************************************************************************So, what do you recommend? Where should I start to learn more about Linux?books/guides, online courses?
Fingerprint login and Gnome Keyring Fingerprint login and Gnome Keyringu/MetaReveal•11 days agoFingerprint login and Gnome KeyringSupportHi, recently switched to Fedora and really enjoying it, everything seems to have worked with the default install. One annoyance I run into is when I log in with my fingerprint scanner I receive a pop-up that it could not unlock my keyring, so I must enter my password to unlock it. Which defeats the purpose. If I log in to my laptop using a password I don't receive the message. From what I have seen online it says you can just set a blank password for your keyring. Is this the only workaround or is there a better solution? Thanks
Mediatek MT7925 slow wifi, help Asus Z13 2025 Mediatek MT7925 slow wifi, help Asus Z13 2025u/MightyMochiGames•2 days agoMediatek MT7925 slow wifi, help Asus Z13 2025SupportI am using an ASUS Flow Z13 2025 that has a Mediatek MT7925 networking card(chip?) and on Fedora KDE 42 I am getting 1/5 (30-40mbps vs 180-200mbps) the internet speeds as the windows install on the same hardware. I have tried creating the power-save-off.conf file with[connection] wifi.powersave = 2but that has had no effect. Disabling bluetooth has no effect. It appears as though I am on the latest kernel(6.18.8-100.fc42.x86_64 and wifi driver(mt7xxx-firmware-20260110-1.fc42.noarch).Am I doing something wrong with how I am trying to disable power save? Is there something else to try?Thanks for any help.
little rant about inconvenient and rude interactions with people here in this subreddit. little rant about inconvenient and rude interactions with people here in this subreddit.u/MekaTheFinnishGoat•20 days agolittle rant about inconvenient and rude interactions with people here in this subreddit.Discussionlittle rant about inconvenient and rude interactions with people here in this subreddit.I just wanted to share my opinion about some people answering inconveniently and even rudely to certain posts here. this has not only happened to me, but I've seen many people do it to others too, in an unfortunate amount of times. all the "bc of wrong distro" "maybe linux isn't for you" "skill issue" like what the heck? I am asking help here on purpose. I accept that as someone who is new to the world of Fedora, I might ask dumb questions. but I am not asking them to piss you guys off, I am asking them because I genuinely don't know something and I want to learn how to do certain stuff. I am not a cop or mod or honestly anyone with an important meaning here, but I just wanted to say that many of the people don't need your negative thoughts about potential "ridiculous" or "dumb" questions.I've understood that this subreddit exists here so we all can share our thoughts together and support and help others if needed, and not for just to criticize the newcomers asking genuine questions that even we didn't know in the start of our journey.message to those people who do that annoying thing: please don't. we ask the questions because we are here to learn, get help, share thoughts and/or fix the issues that we are occuring. not to be criticized and talked "bad stuff" about.thank you for your time and pardon my faulty english.
Fedora 43 Unstable Fedora 43 Unstableu/dnult•2 days agoFedora 43 UnstableSupportI've been running Fedora on an old Lenova workstation for about 5 years now and the experience was largely positive until the release of ver 42 when I started experiencing severe problems with stability. When 43 was released, I hoped it would resolve the problems I was having, but it did not.Sometimes I can use the system for a few hours before the apps, or the gnome shell crashes. Often times I have to perform a hard power-down of the system to recover it. Although the mouse cursor continues to move, I am unable to click controls and the keyboard is inoperative. Crash dumps are useless - having low informational value.I believe my problems are related to graphics based on the behavior and various log messages I've seen. I see fragments of animated window frames even after the app is closed, screen flickering, partially missing text from menus form controls and labels. My system uses an Integrated Intel HD graphics processor with the i915 driver (not NVIDIA). One error I see frequently is "libva error: /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/dri/intel-vaapi-driver/iHD_drv_video.so init failed"I am running a few applications for Amateur radio, and at least a couple of them use Qt.  fldigi, flrig, QLog, and Chrome are what I primarily have open when the problems occur.I'm not sure where to go from here. Can someone offer troubleshooting advice? It has gotten so bad, the system is practically unusable.
Fedora partitioning for Dual-Boot with Ubuntu Fedora partitioning for Dual-Boot with Ubuntuu/fradie59•10 days agoFedora partitioning for Dual-Boot with UbuntuSupportHello, i wanted to Install fedora 43 on a ThinkPad T14 with Ubuntu 24.04. LTS on it. The Installation could Not shrink the Ubuntu-Partition, so i did this with disk-util. Then i installed fedora, anything good now. Q: is the partitioner able to shrink partitions? Thanks for help.
Issues with latest mess update Issues with latest mess updateu/Useful_External_5270•6 days agoIssues with latest mess updateSupportEver since latest mess came out a couple of days ago.  My framerates in games like wow have taken a large hitAny idea on routes to exploreCard is 9060 xt 16 gig brand new.  Btop shows 30% usage.Second to this is there a way to force off dynamic usage.  On my old Nvidia I would always disable dynamic power control because it just caused spikes in wow in both win and LinuxPc power mode is set for performanceThanks
Never used Linux, chose fedora as my first distro Never used Linux, chose fedora as my first distrou/Similar_Reflection75•13 days agoNever used Linux, chose fedora as my first distroSupportI've always been a Windows user and I'm heavily reliant on windows due to the app selection.I have an X1 carbon carbon running an i7-1185G7 with intel iris xe and 16gb ram.Due to my heavy reliance on windows and being a first time user of Linux I installed Linux on an external SSD.I'm using a SanDisk SSD so I know my SSD doesn't have any issues but I'm running into a few issues that I'll list.Speakers at max are too soft.It crashes and gets frozen on the Lenovo boot page randomly while I'm using it.Scrolling is way too fast.I'm using fedora workstation 43, Wayland.There is a pretty steep learning curve to it but YouTube videos have been helpful in customisation.I love the way it feels but these little things make it a bit annoying. I want to give it a real shot and enjoy the animations.Would love if it was a bit more polished.Any suggestions?
Build SFML 3.0 Build SFML 3.0u/Senting44•2 days agoBuild SFML 3.0SupportHi,I’m trying to use SFML for a project and installed from dnf but it installed the SFML 2.7 version, I need the 3.0 version. Is there another package for it ?Also I never built something on Linux, I’m new, so if I end up needing to build it up myself, I would like someone to explain to me how to build correctly.Thanks
Thinkpad won’t go into the bootable usb I made. Thinkpad won’t go into the bootable usb I made.u/Unable_Tangelo7616•10 days agoThinkpad won’t go into the bootable usb I made.SupportSo I’ve done multiple linux installs and never had this issue before, i tried all the conventional bios settings and even tried a different drive for the thinkpad but nothing seems to work, when i go into boot options and select the bootable fedora usb ( made with the fedora media writer) if flashes a black screen and goes straight back to the boot menu. Does anyone recognise this problem? Everything i find tells me its the bios settings but i disabled secure boot, put it on eufi only and everything but nothing changed. Tried remaking the usb that also changed nothing, i updated the bios still nothing. The laptop detects the usb just fine, just won’t boot into it.
fedora update (mesa drivers) fedora update (mesa drivers)u/Dangerous-Shape4096•8 days agofedora update (mesa drivers)Support
[FIXED] HP laptop stuck at logo after Secure Boot dbx update (Fedora) [FIXED] HP laptop stuck at logo after Secure Boot dbx update (Fedora)u/Frimac07•10 days ago[FIXED] HP laptop stuck at logo after Secure Boot dbx update (Fedora)Discussion[FIXED] HP laptop stuck at logo after getting update from software store– Secure Boot dbx update was the causer/linuxquestions•10 days ago[FIXED] HP laptop stuck at logo after getting update from software store– Secure Boot dbx update was the causeCross-posting fromr/linuxquestionsin case2upvotes·2comments
Crazy Ram and Gpu usage Crazy Ram and Gpu usageu/No-Succotash404•2 days agoCrazy Ram and Gpu usageDiscussionCrazy Ram and Gpu usager/firefox•2 days agoCrazy Ram and Gpu usageRtx 3060Ddr4 16gb ramFedora workstation osFirefox has been using a crazy amount of resources with only 4 YouTube tabs opened, one of them playing a video. Up to 4GB of ram and 30% GPU usage while playing a video.Is this because of hardware acceleration, linux, or Firefox just eats up Gpu like a hungry pig?This happened to me with and without betterfox JSON, and it is not related to using it.Pd: Guys I mainly wanted to ask about how playing a video uses 30% of an RTX3060.18comments
QEMU GPU pass through bug on kernel 6.18.8 QEMU GPU pass through bug on kernel 6.18.8u/Complete-Zucchini-85•7 days agoQEMU GPU pass through bug on kernel 6.18.8SupportI have a QEMU/KVM virtual machine setup with single GPU pass through. After updating to kernel 6.18.8, launching the vm causes my host machine to crash and reboot. When I log back into my host fedora system, it gives me a notification that bwrap has crashed. I tested on older kernel versions and it works again. I know this is kind of a rare setup, but has anyone else noticed this? Should I report this bug to fedora or the linux project?
Fedora 43 Workstation lock screen Fedora 43 Workstation lock screenu/luminous_sp•4 days agoFedora 43 Workstation lock screenSupportHi everyone. I have a small problem.When my computer locks, I enter my password, the computer unlocks, and I see my desktop with all my open apps, and then bam, it locks again.Is there a way to fix this?Thanks.
The RDP server that’s built in to KDE is buggy... The RDP server that’s built in to KDE is buggy...u/Laurence5905•10 days agoThe RDP server that’s built in to KDE is buggy...SupportSo I’m running the KDE Plasma version of Fedora 43, and I have enabled the Remote Desktop (RDP) server that’s built in to that.When I first turn on my machine (or after a fresh reboot), I can RDP into it just fine. Once, maybe twice. After a day or two, though, it stops accepting connections. My client sits there and spins and never connects, eventually timing out:Why does it do this? This is Linux – you’re not supposed to have to reboot the thing regularly to make it work. It’s not Windows!I need regular remote access to my machine – this isVERY MUCHa deal-breaker. Why does KDE’s RDP server act like this? Is there a fix? (And, yes, I have kept up-to-date with all the updates. I runsudo dnf updateon a very regular basis -- couple of times a week, easily.)Is there a different RDP server I should install, perhaps? One that isn’t a buggy piece of garbage?Any help will be appreciated!
Linux Gaming Setup Script Linux Gaming Setup Scriptu/theleninlover•10 days agoLinux Gaming Setup ScriptAnnouncementI created this script to transform any standard Linux distribution into a 'gaming distro.' It currently supports most major Distros (including Fedora). If you would like to take a look at it, you can visit the GitHub repository:https://github.com/softwaresocialist/TurboTuxHow to try it out:1. Clone the repositorygit clone https://github.com/softwaresocialist/TurboTux.git cd TurboTux2. Run the scriptchmod +x TurboTux.sh ./TurboTux.sh
Wifi Issues After Fedora 43 Upgrade Wifi Issues After Fedora 43 Upgradeu/Expensive_Dot_8772•11 days agoWifi Issues After Fedora 43 UpgradeSupportHas anyone had issues after installing fedora43 and then once the updates are installed then the wifi stops working. I keep getting an Authorization supplicant timing out every 30 seconds. Internet works great prior to installing the updates
Fedora 43, kernel 6.18, Intel 8265, Thinkpad T480, Wifi Keeps Dropping/Restarting Fedora 43, kernel 6.18, Intel 8265, Thinkpad T480, Wifi Keeps Dropping/Restartingu/Green-Record8519•7 days agoFedora 43, kernel 6.18, Intel 8265, Thinkpad T480, Wifi Keeps Dropping/RestartingSupportThis happens constantly around maybe < 5 minutes. Is there more information on this? Probably not hardware because on debian 13 it was working fine.
Top things to do after installing fedora Top things to do after installing fedora[deleted]•19 days agoTop things to do after installing fedoraDiscussionI am wondering as I am a new user about to install fedora on my laptop. What are the first things I should do?
Dell Docking Station Doesnt Work Dell Docking Station Doesnt Worku/SnifferLetsPlay•11 days agoDell Docking Station Doesnt WorkSupportHey Fedora CommunityI have a little Problem with my Laptop.I have a Dual-Boot System (Fedora and Windows) and my Laptop is a Dell Latitude 2-in-1 5310, and i also have a Dell WD19TB Docking Station.Yet, when i connect my laptop to this Docking Station, the Screens are connectet to the Laptop, but the USB-Ports, Lan-Port, etc. are NOT connectet to the Laptop.I tried to reinstall the driver etc. but nothing worked.Can anyone help me please?Thanks!(Sorry for my bad english, its not my main language.)
Gnome's audio picker shows wrong speaker Gnome's audio picker shows wrong speakeru/nee_-•7 days agoGnome's audio picker shows wrong speakerSupportI currently have a speaker plugged into my motherboard's 3.5mm audio port (powered by usb) which I can't seem to select from Gnome's audio picker. The speaker's name does show up, but clicking it doesn't do anything and stays on the currently picked audio device. Checking the output ofpactl listshows that there are two devices with my speaker's name, and one monitor of one of those devices. Usingwpctl statusin combination withwpctl set-defaultallows me to change the audio to go through the speakers, so I'm assuming Gnome is just picking the wrong one between the two? Has anyone else ran into this?
I had a NVIDIA graphics and switched to an AMD. While on NVIDIA, my speakers worked just fine, but now they won't. Please help. I had a NVIDIA graphics and switched to an AMD. While on NVIDIA, my speakers worked just fine, but now they won't. Please help.u/NaelSchenfel•11 days agoI had a NVIDIA graphics and switched to an AMD. While on NVIDIA, my speakers worked just fine, but now they won't. Please help.SupportWhen I look for info on the Sound part on System Settings, it says Headphones (which gets me to the same soundless ending) and Line Out (Unplugged). Profile is Analog Stereo Output. What do I do?
Fedora Fuels / Facilitates / Exploits My Indecisive Tendencies Fedora Fuels / Facilitates / Exploits My Indecisive Tendenciesu/cyclingroo•3 days agoFedora Fuels / Facilitates / Exploits My Indecisive TendenciesDiscussionI have been using Linux for over thirty years. Yes, it's been that long. And I've distro-hopped my way across the Linux galaxy. But as a rule, I seem to demonstrate manic tendencies - making changes every few quarters.At one point, I pour myself into the lure of "the latest and greatest" (as demonstrated by my repeated use of Arch). I then decide that the lack of stability is too unnerving. That's when I lean into immutable distributions.But after many years of swinging between these extremes, I'm settling on one truth: it is easy to make changes to technology. However, it is difficult to make changes to processes and communities. After quite a bit of vacillation, I'm finally committing to the larger Fedora community.In this community, I can run Silverblue, Kinoite, or a variety of other ultra-stable platforms. Or, I can spend my time in Rawhide - where I can see (and exploit) the most recent technologies.Nevertheless, I'm starting to settle upon a stable host and unstable guests. Right now, I'm using Fedora workstation as my stable host. And I'm running my Arch systems - and my Debian-based security / pen testing platforms - under that umbrella.But I've heard many folks who are pushing me towards a Debian-based host platform. I'm a little concerned about doing that because it means that my host will not be able to take advantage of the latest hardware changes that are available.At the moment, I'm waffling between thoughts of stability versus thoughts of flexibility.  What are your thoughts on this subject? Should I change my model? Or am I just playing to my insecurities - and my indecisiveness?
Networking Issues in Windows VM Networking Issues in Windows VMu/prosetheus•7 days agoNetworking Issues in Windows VMSupportHey all!I followed this guide:https://gist.github.com/KitBaroness/e361cae0600003bfb8ecea89c56d1f2aand a couple of others to get a windows 11 VM functional in Fedora.Everything worked as the guide mentioned, except networking. Try as I might, it just fails to get an internet adaptor working, depsite installing the drivers according to the guide multiple times and even uninstalling and reinstalling them within windows. There is no error either.Would greatly appreciate any assistance.SOLUTION in post byu/Nester47below. This is a bug apparently.
Developing with Toolbox - Fedora Kinoite Developing with Toolbox - Fedora Kinoiteu/ExtensionFile4477•11 days agoDeveloping with Toolbox - Fedora KinoiteSupportRecently, I switched over to Fedora Kinoite and saw that I could develop with Toolbox. I've found it to be pretty good but my issue is that I would need to install Rider into every container that I use.I believe I read somewhere that I could use the flatpak and have it call the container where needed through configuration settings but i'm not really finding exactly how to. I'm not too familiar with Flatpaks but the containerizing of development projects seems really cool.Could anyone provide steps on how to accurately do this? It seems like it would need a Bash script to call the toolbox directly.EDIT: Found how to SSH into the local tool box using the Flatpaks Remote Development. Seems easiest. I'll add the solution instructions here later for anyone that needs it (assuming it solves it completely for me).EDIT 2: So setting up the development environment with the Rider IDE Flatpak and Toolbox containers. This solution was a lot of trial and error using mostly google Gemini to try to gather information:Create a toolbox and enter a toolbox:toolbox create 'toolbox name here'toolbox enter 'toolbox name here'2. Install openSSH (-y is optional - allows answering all "yes" to prompts):sudo dnf install openssh-server -y3. Generate Host Keys:sudo /usr/libexec/openssh/sshd-keygen rsasudo /usr/libexec/openssh/sshd-keygen ed255194. You apparently cant usesystemctl start sshdin a container so you need to use something like the following to start up the ssh server:/usr/sbin/sshd -p 'customPortHere'Also, specify a custom port to not conflict with Fedora's Host SSH.5. Open Rider and selectRemote Development6. Select SSH and click New.7. Enter the connection info. Since the toolbox is localhost, just use127.0.0.1along with the port number used and other information.Thats the jist of the setup. Youll also need to generate an ssh key for github to clone to the toolbox.Also, brace for troubleshooting as you download dependencies and troubleshoot ssh keys as it may mismatch later on like mine did after booting up a new day. Hope this helps!
Laptop stuck in boot Laptop stuck in bootu/No_Technician_8031•11 days agoLaptop stuck in bootSupport
Rebase from Aurora OS to Kinoite now UNVERIFIED Rebase from Aurora OS to Kinoite now UNVERIFIEDu/jtrox02•11 days agoRebase from Aurora OS to Kinoite now UNVERIFIEDSupportSo I followed a forum post on uBlue forums and ran:sudo bootc switchquay.io/fedora-ostree-desktops/kinoite:43But it has put me on an unverified image:● ostree-unverified-registry:quay.io/fedora-ostree-desktops/kinoite:43 (index: 0)Then I found something about using:sudo bootc switch --enforce-container-sigpolicyquay.io/fedora-ostree-desktops/kinoite:43But this gives error:error: Switching: Switching (ostree): Preparing import: Fetching manifest: containers-policy.json specifies a default of \insecureAcceptAnything`; refusing usage`So I edited /etc/containers/policy.json to "reject" but that gives another different error and I found some really involved instructions to go from there which I am not sure I trust. Can't find a web source detailing this and AI is halucinating and missing details.Is there anyway to get my entire system back on the signed Fedora Kinoite image? Seems like it is messing up auto-updates as well besides that I should be using it for obvious reasons. (I originally installed the Aurora ISO and now just want Kinoite)
KDE Plasma Remote Desktop doesn't seem to like two-finger trackpad scrolling KDE Plasma Remote Desktop doesn't seem to like two-finger trackpad scrollingu/Smart-Simple9938•11 days agoKDE Plasma Remote Desktop doesn't seem to like two-finger trackpad scrollingSupportI switched over (Fedora 43) from Gnome to KDE Plasma to check it out. I kind of like it but there's one big problem: it seems to ignore two-finger trackpad scrolling over a Remote Desktop session. Two-finger scrolling on a locally-connected trackpad is fine; I'm talking about connecting with an RDP client and trying to scroll a remote window from the RDP client machine. This wasn't a problem with Gnome. Any insights?
Switching to Ubuntu after using Fedora for a 2 months Switching to Ubuntu after using Fedora for a 2 monthsu/encryptedShresth•1 mo. agoSwitching to Ubuntu after using Fedora for a 2 monthsDiscussionSo I decided to try Fedora because everyone kept saying it’s clean, modern, and close to “upstream Linux.” And honestly? At first, it felt really exciting. GNOME on Fedora looks beautiful, everything feels fresh, and I liked the idea of using something that’s close to what developers actually work on. But… using Fedora daily has been a bit of a rollercoaster. I ran into way more issues than I expected. Random UI glitches after suspend — sometimes the whole desktop would come back blank: no top bar, no dock, no icons, just a wallpaper staring at me. Video playback issues were constant. Some apps refused to launch properly. Turning on virtualization somehow broke my graphics. Fix one thing, and something else would break. And the worst part? It made me anxious to experiment. Every time I changed a setting, installed something new, or tried a tweak, I had this feeling like: “Is this going to break my system again?” Instead of enjoying Linux and learning, I was just firefighting problems. Don’t get me wrong — Fedora is powerful. It feels like a great distro for people who really want to stay close to the bleeding edge and don’t mind debugging often. But for me, as someone who just wants to learn, work, and chill on my system, it started to feel like standing in front of a crocodile: impressive, but stressful. So after about 2 months of using Fedora, I’ve decided to switch to Ubuntu. Not because Ubuntu is “better” in every way — but because I want a peaceful working environment. Something boring in a good way. Something that just works, lets me focus on my stuff, and doesn’t scare me every time I press “restart.” Fedora was fun. Fedora taught me a lot. But now I just want peace. 🧘‍♂️ Hello, Ubuntu — let’s see if you can give me that.
Steam on Fedora KDE (ARM/aarch64) any workaround at all, or hard no? Steam on Fedora KDE (ARM/aarch64) any workaround at all, or hard no?u/FirasAlkasah•11 days agoSteam on Fedora KDE (ARM/aarch64) any workaround at all, or hard no?SupportHey all,I’m running Fedora 43 KDE Plasma (aarch64) inside a UTM VM on an Apple Silicon Mac, and honestly Fedora + KDE on ARM runs fantastically — performance, audio, graphics, networking, everything feels native.The only wall I’ve hit is Steam.I understand there’s no official Steam client for ARM Linux, and that Flatpak / RPM repos don’t ship an aarch64 build. I’ve already confirmed that Discover and Flathub won’t show it.Before I fully give up though, I wanted to ask the community:•	Is there any supported or semi-supported workaround people are using on Fedora ARM?  •	Has anyone had success with x86 emulation (box64 / qemu-user / etc.) specifically for the Steam client?  •	Or is this still a hard “not realistically usable” situation in 2026?I’m not expecting miracles, just trying to understand the current state and whether experimentation is worth the effort or if Steam Deck / x86 Linux is still the only real option.Appreciate any insight 🙏Send it when ready.
Eduroam Fedora Eduroam Fedorau/Reaper9766•11 days agoEduroam FedoraDiscussionHey all is anyone here a UK student and has got eduroam to work on fedora? I’m new to fedora and a bit confused on how you set it up
Why does my fedora gnome feel slower than arch? Why does my fedora gnome feel slower than arch?u/angryPotato1122•11 days agoWhy does my fedora gnome feel slower than arch?DiscussionI switched to fedora few days ago from arch hyprland because shit kept breaking for me and I don’t want to reinstall every few weeks.I just want a dev machine that works. but fedora feels slower and not as snappy as arch. Anything I need to do to fix? is gnome the problem?spec: dell latitude i5. 32gb ram. ssd.regular vs code/nvim, react, Astro, rust, docker engine workload.edit: thanks for the comments. Yes I  believe it’s not the   distro. I will try turning off animations  and try niri or hyprland whichever is easier to install.update: been using niri for the past few days without animations. Definitely feels snappy and fast.but there is something definitely wrong with Firefox, I was doing some dev work and it maxed out my ram and cpu and crashed frequently, the website just had some dots Animation. Made my laptop incredibly laggy before it crashed too. So installed chromium for dev work and it seems to work fine so far.
Agentic workflows in a Fedora way? Agentic workflows in a Fedora way?u/ramendik•11 days agoAgentic workflows in a Fedora way?DiscussionSo with the security nightmare of a local bot being all the rage, I wonder if there is a proper mature-ish Fedora-appropriate way to get things like an agent with a heartbeat and a messenger keeping an eye on emails or other updates, without the "throw all the keys to a vibe coded something" part.Given "Red Hat upstream" this probably has to involve LlamaStack, but I have no idea beyond that. What do people actually use and is there anything more or less standard?
"Sell" me Fedora "Sell" me Fedorau/Leverquin•11 days ago"Sell" me FedoraDiscussionHello! After Windows 7 lost support (few months later) I have swapped to Ubuntu, didn't like it (not fan of GNOME too) so i ended on Mint 21.3 with XFCE.I really like it.I am curious about Debian (i am familiar with APT and i like that is stable) - but i found only ONE program (Anki) and i have some issue with it with not able to change theme duo old packages and etc.Anyway I want to my next distro be KDE based. SO Why Fedora over Debian?my current spec is:CPU: Intel i5-10400F (12) @ 4.300GHzGPU: NVIDIA GeForce GTX 1660 SUPERMemory: 64 GBI have my old pc too (no ssd, no hdd, no external - monitor, keyboard, mouse) - but i want to revive it for my father:CPU: Intel i5-2400 (4) @ 3.100GHzGPU: NVIDIA GeForce GTX 1050Memory: 16 GBI am thinking to put Debian on old machine and Debian or Fedora on newer.Thank you for responding.
im moving from windows to fedora and got this error when i put it on my hard drive using balenaetcher and its just not working its not corrupted i followed a tutorial please help me fix [it didnt work with ubuntu when i tried it, but its not working with fedora] im moving from windows to fedora and got this error when i put it on my hard drive using balenaetcher and its just not working its not corrupted i followed a tutorial please help me fix [it didnt work with ubuntu when i tried it, but its not working with fedora]u/Temporary_Chip9455•3 days agoim moving from windows to fedora and got this error when i put it on my hard drive using balenaetcher and its just not working its not corrupted i followed a tutorial please help me fix [it didnt work with ubuntu when i tried it, but its not working with fedora]Support
Laptop Stuck at Boot Laptop Stuck at Bootu/pipoluakgandalfali•16 days agoLaptop Stuck at BootSupport
I think Plymouth might have increased my firmware boot time from 9 seconds to ~30 seconds. Please help. I think Plymouth might have increased my firmware boot time from 9 seconds to ~30 seconds. Please help.u/Varaug•11 days agoI think Plymouth might have increased my firmware boot time from 9 seconds to ~30 seconds. Please help.SupportDisclaimer: I'm not 100% sure that it was actually Plymouth that triggered this issue.I was playing around with ricing my setup, hyprland, sddm, the whole 9 yards. But when I changed my Plymouth theme it first took a long time to apply (like ~120 seconds). I had to install Plymouth script utils for this to work.Now the theme worked, but boot gets stuck on firmware for around 30 seconds now, instead of ~9 seconds like it was before.What I've tried:Removing everything Plymouth relatedNuke everything and reinstall fedora after wiping all partitionsCheck around in BIOS for fast boot and USB devices (no dice)Just to be clear, the OS boots fast enough, its only the firmware.# systemd-analyze  Startup finished in 29.265s (firmware) + 2.419s (loader) + 758ms (kernel) + 3.872s (initrd) + 4.187s (userspace) = 40.502s  graphical.target reached after 4.187s in userspace.  # systemd-analyze blame 2min 19.405s fstrim.service       4.795s sys-module-fuse.device       4.567s dev-tpm0.device       4.567s sys-devices-LNXSYSTM:00-LNXSYBUS:00-MSFT0101:00-tpm-tpm0.device       4.556s dev-ttyS1.device       4.556s sys-devices-platform-serial8250-serial8250:0-serial8250:0.1-tty-ttyS1.device       4.556s dev-ttyS2.device       4.556s sys-devices-platform-serial8250-serial8250:0-serial8250:0.2-tty-ttyS2.device       4.556s sys-devices-platform-serial8250-serial8250:0-serial8250:0.3-tty-ttyS3.device       4.556s dev-ttyS3.device       4.555s sys-devices-platform-serial8250-serial8250:0-serial8250:0.0-tty-ttyS0.device       4.555s dev-ttyS0.device       4.555s sys-devices-LNXSYSTM:00-LNXSYBUS:00-MSFT0101:00-tpmrm-tpmrm0.device       4.555s dev-tpmrm0.device       4.534s sys-module-configfs.device       4.339s dev-disk-by\x2dpath-pci\x2d0000:04:00.0\x2dnvme\x2d1\x2dpart-by\x2dpartlabel-EFI\x5cx20System\x5cx20Partition.device       4.339s dev-nvme0n1p1.device       4.339s dev-disk-by\x2dpath-pci\x2d0000:04:00.0\x2dnvme\x2d1\x2dpart-by\x2dpartnum-1.device       4.339s dev-disk-by\x2did-nvme\x2dMicron_MTFDKCD512TGE\x2d1BK1AABLA_24524D1DB99C\x2dpart1.device       4.339s dev-disk-by\x2ddesignator-esp.device       4.339s sys-devices-pci0000:00-0000:00:02.4-0000:04:00.0-nvme-nvme0-nvme0n1-nvme0n1p1.device       4.339s dev-disk-by\x2dpath-pci\x2d0000:04:00.0\x2dnvme\x2d1\x2dpart-by\x2dpartuuid-e7e4847a\x2dffe7\x2d43a7\x2d97ed\x2d5ce507ae1acc.device       4.339s dev-disk-by\x2ddiskseq-1\x2dpart1.device       4.339s dev-disk-by\x2dpartuuid-e7e4847a\x2dffe7\x2d43a7\x2d97ed\x2d5ce507ae1acc.device       4.339s dev-disk-by\x2did-nvme\x2dMicron_MTFDKCD512TGE\x2d1BK1AABLA_24524D1DB99C_1\x2dpart1.device       4.339s dev-disk-by\x2dpartlabel-EFI\x5cx20System\x5cx20Partition.device       4.339s dev-disk-by\x2did-nvme\x2deui.00a075014d1db99c\x2dpart1.device       4.339s dev-disk-by\x2dpath-pci\x2d0000:04:00.0\x2dnvme\x2d1\x2dpart-by\x2duuid-7426\x2d5408.device       4.339s dev-disk-by\x2duuid-7426\x2d5408.device       4.339s dev-disk-by\x2dpath-pci\x2d0000:04:00.0\x2dnvme\x2d1\x2dpart1.device       4.331s dev-disk-by\x2did-nvme\x2deui.00a075014d1db99c\x2dpart3.device       4.331s dev-nvme0n1p3.device       4.331s dev-disk-by\x2dpath-pci\x2d0000:04:00.0\x2dnvme\x2d1\x2dpart-by\x2dpartuuid-9fe8ec5d\x2d7ba0\x2d4619\x2dbb45\x2d40c90b0e1877.device       4.331s dev-disk-by\x2dpath-pci\x2d0000:04:00.0\x2dnvme\x2d1\x2dpart-by\x2dpartnum-3.device       4.331s dev-disk-by\x2dpath-pci\x2d0000:04:00.0\x2dnvme\x2d1\x2dpart-by\x2dlabel-Falcon.device       4.331s dev-disk-by\x2dpath-pci\x2d0000:04:00.0\x2dnvme\x2d1\x2dpart-by\x2duuid-96a512e4\x2d9596\x2d4ba7\x2dbab4\x2d2156c85238af.device       4.331s sys-devices-pci0000:00-0000:00:02.4-0000:04:00.0-nvme-nvme0-nvme0n1-nvme0n1p3.device       4.331s dev-disk-by\x2dlabel-Falcon.device       4.331s dev-disk-by\x2dpartuuid-9fe8ec5d\x2d7ba0\x2d4619\x2dbb45\x2d40c90b0e1877.device       4.331s dev-disk-by\x2did-nvme\x2dMicron_MTFDKCD512TGE\x2d1BK1AABLA_24524D1DB99C\x2dpart3.device       4.331s dev-disk-by\x2ddiskseq-1\x2dpart3.device       4.331s dev-disk-by\x2did-nvme\x2dMicron_MTFDKCD512TGE\x2d1BK1AABLA_24524D1DB99C_1\x2dpart3.device       4.331s dev-disk-by\x2dpath-pci\x2d0000:04:00.0\x2dnvme\x2d1\x2dpart3.device       4.331s dev-disk-by\x2duuid-96a512e4\x2d9596\x2d4ba7\x2dbab4\x2d2156c85238af.device       4.326s dev-disk-by\x2dpath-pci\x2d0000:04:00.0\x2dnvme\x2d1\x2dpart-by\x2dpartnum-2.device       4.325s dev-disk-by\x2did-nvme\x2deui.00a075014d1db99c\x2dpart2.device       4.325s dev-disk-by\x2ddiskseq-1\x2dpart2.device       4.325s dev-disk-by\x2dpath-pci\x2d0000:04:00.0\x2dnvme\x2d1\x2dpart-by\x2duuid-d55c4782\x2dd9e0\x2d4096\x2d9ab9\x2d20e188606080.device       4.325s dev-disk-by\x2did-nvme\x2dMicron_MTFDKCD512TGE\x2d1BK1AABLA_24524D1DB99C\x2dpart2.device       4.325s dev-disk-by\x2did-nvme\x2dMicron_MTFDKCD512TGE\x2d1BK1AABLA_24524D1DB99C_1\x2dpart2.device       4.325s sys-devices-pci0000:00-0000:00:02.4-0000:04:00.0-nvme-nvme0-nvme0n1-nvme0n1p2.device       4.325s dev-disk-by\x2dpath-pci\x2d0000:04:00.0\x2dnvme\x2d1\x2dpart2.device       4.325s dev-nvme0n1p2.deviceP.S. I read somewhere that Plymouth modifies power settings, but I couldn't find anything in fedora settings.Anyone else have a similar issue? Know what I'm missing? Please help
Windows 11 hijacked my Fedora boot today Windows 11 hijacked my Fedora boot todayu/Electrical-Crow5685•17 days agoWindows 11 hijacked my Fedora boot todayDiscussionFedora is my favorite distro so far. I’ve been using it for over 30 days.Today, the boot order suddenly changed back to Windows loading first, even though I didn’t change anything and hadn’t used Windows in a month.GRUB disappeared, and the system went straight into Windows. I couldn’t even get into the BIOS at first because Windows Fast Boot blocked it, so I had to use the Windows command line to change the boot order back.It looks like a Windows update ran in the background and reset the EFI boot order.Is there a reliable way to prevent Windows from changing the boot order or hijacking GRUB in the future?I already disabled Secure Boot and tweaked a few settings, but I’m not sure what actually sticks long-term when these settings were already set in the bios.
Increased Partition Size but Lower Disk Space? Increased Partition Size but Lower Disk Space?u/cton999•3 days agoIncreased Partition Size but Lower Disk Space?SupportI recently deleted my other Linux partition and added the unallocated space into my Fedora partition using gparted(now 1.4 TB), but now /home says I havemuchless space? (only showing about 400 GB). / (/ nothing, just /) shows the same lower space. On DIsks, it says 102GB free, but that is incorrect as I just added over 300 GB of unallocated space to the partition? How can I fix this storage issue?
New to Fedora User ! New to Fedora User !u/ikyua•20 days agoNew to Fedora User !DiscussionI've just recently swapped over to Fedora.It's my first ever linux distro and I heard a lot of great things about Fedora and decided to use it. I'm here to get some help and tips about what I should do with Fedora, the capabilities of Fedora and overall just improve my experience with it. I'd appreciate any tips, apps, or anything else to improve my experienceI'm using it for daily usage, for school work, programming, entertainment and games. I've noticed a small decrease in overall performance in games compared to Windows but it's not a huge detriment to me.So againThanks in advance!
Connecting to Ear phones, restarts/crashes my pc. Connecting to Ear phones, restarts/crashes my pc.u/Slight-Equipment-664•18 days agoConnecting to Ear phones, restarts/crashes my pc.Support
Is there install guide for kde plasma? Is there install guide for kde plasma?u/Academic_Leave9287•3 days agoIs there install guide for kde plasma?SupportSo I'm new to Linux and stuff and I want to try kde plasma cuz I heard is customizable, I've also heard data loss stuff in dual booting so I hope to just boot it in a flash drive, I've successfully done it once but the persistence is not workingSorry I'm I'm using The terms wrong
terra repo in fedora! terra repo in fedora!u/DayInfinite8322•6 days agoterra repo in fedora!Supportanybody using terra repo in Fedora for apps that not available in official repos?does it safe to use it, or it might compromise stability of system?does it same like using AUR in Arch, or it more or less riskier than AUR?i see this on a post installation guide, but i thought first confirm with community.
Fedora Workstation Successfully Installed on Dell Chromebook 3189 4GB 16GB Fedora Workstation Successfully Installed on Dell Chromebook 3189 4GB 16GBu/PuzzleheadedSun5408•11 days agoFedora Workstation Successfully Installed on Dell Chromebook 3189 4GB 16GBAnnouncementAfter trying many Android and Linux based OS, finally succeeded with Fedora Workstation. In many OS including Chrome OS audio did not work. In some keyboard did not work. In xubuntu everything worked but it was not suitable for touch/tablet mode. Finally installed Fedora Workstation. Every piece of hardware works without any additional work. Is suitable for phisical keyboard as well as touch usage. And now installing android support as well as you can see. Is a bit heavy for this piece of junk but after some settings become smooth. Searched a lot on web for suitable OS for this machine and spent a lot of time troubleshooting a lot of operating systems so posting here for those people who are in similar situation to not waste time and just go with this one. Thanks for people behind this cool OS.
RPM Fusion Steam Stutters and Low FPS in Launcher and Games RPM Fusion Steam Stutters and Low FPS in Launcher and Gamesu/Consistent-Issue2325•11 days agoRPM Fusion Steam Stutters and Low FPS in Launcher and GamesSupportI tried installing Steam through RPM fusion since I prefer the native install, but upon doing so, Steam always repetitively launches as a minimized black screen that crashes and opens again. Launch in terminal, disable GPU acceleration in web views, close it an reopen it. Now it works, ok.When in a small window, Steam seems to run smoothly, but once I make the window the size of my monitor, it lags very badly. If I scroll up and down rapidly, I can see it stuttering pretty bad. If I try to launch a game through this version of Steam, the game has extremely low FPS, stuttering, and only functions on half of my screen for some reason while the other half freezes. This seems to happen no matter what proton version I try.If I install Steam through the Flatpak, it works generally well. It's a completely different story with the RPM fusion version.Any ideas?OS: Fedora 43 Cosmic spinGPU: RX 7900XTCPU: Ryzen 9 7950XRAM: 32GBEverything is updated.
[Fedora 43] Realtek Bluetooth Audio Crackling (Galaxy Buds) every few seconds. [Fedora 43] Realtek Bluetooth Audio Crackling (Galaxy Buds) every few seconds.u/kilowatt-damu•7 days ago[Fedora 43] Realtek Bluetooth Audio Crackling (Galaxy Buds) every few seconds.SupportI'm experiencing a weird issue where when I turn on my WiFi and connect to 5GHz and also connect a bluetooth audio device, the audio crackles and lags every few seconds for a second or so. Is there any fix for it?There is very slight, ignorable cracking when connected to 2.4Ghz WiFi too, but its very rare.ThinkPad E14 G6 (AMD)Fedora 43 GNOMEKernal: 6.18.8-200.fc43.x86_64Realtek Semiconductor Corp. Bluetooth Radio
I forgot my sudo password and I can't seem to change it I forgot my sudo password and I can't seem to change itu/GINJAWHO•3 days agoI forgot my sudo password and I can't seem to change itSupporthttps://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/quick-docs/reset-root-password/
Just found this handy too for Fedora Atomic Just found this handy too for Fedora Atomicu/Adept-Boysenberry-90•22 days agoJust found this handy too for Fedora AtomicDiscussion
It would be great if Fedora KDE Discover displayed a prompt to enable third-party drivers when a user searches for 'nvidia'. It would be great if Fedora KDE Discover displayed a prompt to enable third-party drivers when a user searches for 'nvidia'.u/RockzDXebec•19 days agoIt would be great if Fedora KDE Discover displayed a prompt to enable third-party drivers when a user searches for 'nvidia'.Discussion
Fedora (CachyOS Kernel) Fedora (CachyOS Kernel)u/Davedes83•23 days agoFedora (CachyOS Kernel)DiscussionOver the past months I have been on a mission exploring different Linux distros to compare their performance and stability for my use case. I tested Nobara, Bazzite, CachyOS, and the Cosmic Spin desktop.Both Nobara and Bazzite have strong points, but I found Nobara updates process to be painfully slow, and Bazzite felt somewhat bloated and slower in general. Because of this I shifted to the source, Fedora.While Fedora is not gaming focused out of the box, I have set up the Nvidia drivers, Steam, Heroic, and Proton plus to get games running. I discovered that CachyOS offers a kernel for Fedora, which really caught my interest. This could potentially give me the performance benefits of CachyOS along with Fedora stability.My question for anyone else that has tried or is currently running this setup.Is the performance improvement noticeable and worth the switch?Did you see any tangible gains in gaming performance?How has stability been with the CachyOS kernel on Fedora?Are there any drawbacks or downsides to this configuration?Thanks in advance for any feedback.
Firefox bugs on fedora Firefox bugs on fedorau/HappyRogue121•11 days agoFirefox bugs on fedoraSupportI realize this might be a better question for a firefox forum, but I have only encountered this on fedora so thought I would post here first.1st bug:  When using google sheets, I cannot edit a cell without pressing "Enter" first.  Normally if a cell is highlighted and I type 'a', it would start editing the cell and input 'a' without pressing enter.  I have to type enter every time, it's very annoying.2nd bug: On IXL, if there is any equation input (like herehttps://www.ixl.com/math/algebra-2/solve-quadratic-inequalities), I can't type anything.This is with a fresh updated installation of fedora 43.edit:  This is for fedoraKDEedit 2:Resolved.  I found out the problem was from switching the on-screen keyboard from Maliit to IBus Wayland.  I did so because Maliit was crashing sometimes and I read other people say they switched to IBus Wayland.  Switching tononealso seems fine.
Battery Optimization on Nvidia Laptops Battery Optimization on Nvidia Laptopsu/Jijovo•11 days agoBattery Optimization on Nvidia LaptopsDiscussionI switched to Fedora from windows a few months ago and it's been great. I hopped around between a few distros (all fedora based, tried OpenSUSE Tumbleweed but had a hard time setting it up, maybe in the future), currently on Ultramarine Linux.Anyway, I was wondering if there is a better way to optimize battery usage since Im on an Nvidia gaming laptop, whose battery sucks ass as expected.  I'm using autocpufreq and that got me thinking if there is a solution similiar to this for dedicated gpus. I've heard of Bumblebee but don't know how it actually works. I've also heard it has some performance issues? I'm assuming they mean, you know, the fact your dgpu is turned off but if there's something else that would be useful to know.Tl;dR: For those who have laptops with dGPUs running Fedora, what do you use to optimize your battery life?
Fedora inside Fedora is just too OP! Fedora inside Fedora is just too OP!u/Nearby-Percentage-33•27 days agoFedora inside Fedora is just too OP!Screenshot
How to have a correct pasting behavior How to have a correct pasting behavioru/Ill_Assignment_2798•11 days agoHow to have a correct pasting behaviorSupportHi there. I'm using Fedora KDE since 6 months and there is something I can't understand.I haven't found a way to have a goose copy-paste behavior and history like win11. To be frank, that's the only feature I'm missing. Kde comes with a similar tool, but when you click on a previous history, it doesn't past. Sometimes Ctrl+c Ctrl+v doesnt even work, depending on app I'm on.Is it a KDE thing ? Wayland maybe. Or maybe I'm missing something
LUKS Passphrase window not shown on boot LUKS Passphrase window not shown on bootu/canitplaycrisis•11 days agoLUKS Passphrase window not shown on bootSupportWhenever I start my laptop (Lenovo IdeaPad Pro 5i Gen 10 14" (14IAH)) and boot into Fedora, it first shows the Lenovo logo, but never the "Enter the passphrase for {SSD}" window. Instead it just shows a back screen. I am able to get into Fedora by simply entering the passphrase without the window, but I just think that this is annoying. This bug exists since the release of Fedora 43, I asked at that time what I can do, nobody really gave me a solution, I assumed that this would be fixed at some point, but here we go again...
Pipewire and Bluetooth - Audio Stuck Pipewire and Bluetooth - Audio Stucku/Zero_Phux_Given•6 days agoPipewire and Bluetooth - Audio StuckSupportIn the past month there was some update which has broken my audio. When I connect my headphones (bluetooth) the volume is stuck and can't be freely raised/lowered. I have to restart pipewire using a command such as:systemctl --user restart pipewire.serviceIs this a known issue as of recent? Is this somehow just me? Anyone know of a way to fix this so audio just works normally - and I'm not needing to restart pipewire every so often?
Sharing the same EFI partition? Sharing the same EFI partition?u/isaid_JKnvm99•11 days agoSharing the same EFI partition?SupportHi, I am new to linux. Wanting to try out Fedora for the first time. I want to dual boot Fedora 43 with Windows 11 on the same drive.Should I share the Windows EFI with Fedora or create a separate partition for that?
SP Customization SP Customizationu/c-r-u-d-o•12 days agoSP CustomizationSupportHi everyone, how are you?I'm an intermediate Linux user, I've had experience with Arch and Ubuntu, and I feel most comfortable with Fedora. I'd like some tips to make my Fedora setup look more minimalist and dynamic. What themes and fonts would you recommend? Do I need to use Wayland?Currently I'm using GNOME, which comes pre-installed by default.Thanks in advance!
Workspace workflow of mine Workspace workflow of mineu/NP_Ex•3 days agoWorkspace workflow of mineDiscussionHello! Comming from windows and for now I love to use Fedora!My case:- I work in parallel in two programming projects- I have same copy of tabs in FireFox for each project (github, dev env, local env, sources etc)- I have open all projects in IDE, 2 windows for each project (4 widnows in total)- I have 3 monitors, it fits well for me, left for FireFox, middle for ide, right for devtools (same copy of them for each porject :"D)My problem:- I'm dying under amount of windows for each monitor- It's not that smooth to find the one IDE window in that whole spam of allMy current (for sure not best) solution:- I have 3 workpaces- All monitors are included in those- First for project A, middle for communicators and dummy things, right last for project B- In all of workspaces I have windows of FireFox, IDE etc, soo workspaces share same appPros:- it works! and I love itCons:- every restart or each time when I turn off my monitor (common case, I have to switch also between my main job and have to plug in monitors into the laptop) I have to once again reorganize all of that bazylion widnows...Any idea?I cant pin each window of the same app for each workzone... At least I think sooIs there (simple) way to pin window of app for each workzone and turn up all of them during the restart?Thanks!
This window popped up out of nowhere after my browser crashed and it comes back if I click Cancel. Should I be concerned? This window popped up out of nowhere after my browser crashed and it comes back if I click Cancel. Should I be concerned?u/Qwert-4•25 days agoThis window popped up out of nowhere after my browser crashed and it comes back if I click Cancel. Should I be concerned?Support
File Type Associations Not Working Correctly on Fedora 43 Cosmic Spin File Type Associations Not Working Correctly on Fedora 43 Cosmic Spinu/Gr83st•4 days agoFile Type Associations Not Working Correctly on Fedora 43 Cosmic SpinSupportI got my feet wet on Fedora 43 Cosmic Spin recently. The only issue I experience at this point is that file associations are not working correctly. Say I double-click on a PDF file on the file manager. I expect Okular to open it - which is the default file viewer on the Cosmic Spin, but GIMP opens up instead. The "Open With" option does not remember my choice. How do I fix this?
Now 6 months on Fedora Now 6 months on Fedorau/pathermo•10 days agoNow 6 months on FedoraDiscussionExactly six months ago today, I installed Fedora 42 on my new Acer Aspire A515 laptop. I eliminated Windows from my life a couple of years ago and started with Ubuntu, then Kubuntu, then Nobara, and finally Fedora.After exploring other distros, I much prefer Fedora, with the KDE desktop environment, as I've always liked its customization options.Last month, I upgraded to 43 and everything went well.
Black squares in YouTube and while scrolling galleries (Gnome / Firefox) Black squares in YouTube and while scrolling galleries (Gnome / Firefox)u/KorenLesthe•3 days agoBlack squares in YouTube and while scrolling galleries (Gnome / Firefox)SupportHi !I installed Fedora (Gnome) yesterday and updated all the apps & system, also installed the codecs, the nVidia drivers and restarted. But when I watch a YT video while not in fullscreen, a random black square flickers for a second, its position is never the same and it is pure random.It also happen a lot more when I scroll in art galleries (like FurAffinity), it's quite disturbing, like screen tearing except it's in a small box.I mainly use Firefox because I'm not a fan of Chrome and Vivaldi have massive freezes on my system for no reason at all.My rig : CPU : i5 11500k GPU : 5070 RTX RAM : 16 Gb DDR4I never had this issue on other distro using Gnome or KDE (and I've tried quite a lot).
Changing resolution on external screen doesn't work Changing resolution on external screen doesn't worku/canitplaycrisis•5 days agoChanging resolution on external screen doesn't workSupportWhen I plug in my Laptop to my TV, I cannot change the resolution. I tried it in System Settings -> Display & Monitor -> Display configuration -> Resolution and applying it, but it doesn't work; it stays on the 16:10 equivalent to 1080p. Every other setting in Display configuration works. I also tried in the Terminal withkscreen-doctor, but it doesn't work either. When I change 'Mirror Screens' to 'Only use external screen' (Fn+F7), it works. This bug has been existing since I am using Fedora (September).
Black screen after reboot Black screen after rebootu/Reaper9766•11 days agoBlack screen after rebootSupportHey all I’m new to fedora as I just put it on my laptop and for some reason after I restarted for the first time all I get is a black screen and it’s un responsive
Installing bcachefs in Fedora CoreOS Installing bcachefs in Fedora CoreOSu/TastyPi•7 days agoInstalling bcachefs in Fedora CoreOSSupportInstalling bcachefs in Fedora CoreOSr/bcachefs•7 days agoInstalling bcachefs in Fedora CoreOSI've been running Fedora CoreOS on my home server since around the time bcachefs was added to the kernel. I was well aware of it being subsequently removed, however I clearly didn't do my due diligence as I've just now updated to a new kernel version which no longer includes the bcachefs module. I had naively assumedbcachefs-toolswas providing the DKMS module for me 😅.Anyway, now I need to find a solution for how to install the bcachefs module in Fedora CoreOS. Things I've considered:Use theCOPRto install the DKMS module. This sadly does not work - when I try to installdkms-bcachefsI get an errorError! No write access to DKMS tree at /var/lib/dkms.Install a prebuilt kernel with bcachefs. I did find aCOPRwith such a kernel, but I'm hesitant to install random unofficial kernels.Manually build the DKMS module and install it from the "writable" part of the OS. However, I haven't managed to find any information on how to build the DKMS module though (I've never one before). This would require me to manually rebuild it every now and then (or set up somethng which regularly rebuilds the module automatically.Use a different distro. I've been really enjoying my automatic atomic updates though.Give up on bcachefs - would be a massive shame as it seems to be the best solution for my setup (a bunch of differently-sized second-hand drives).Other suggestions welcomed, I'd like a solution which requires minimal manual ongoing maintenance. I can't find anyone else talking about this combination, but surely I can't be the only one?If anyone is in the same boat, for now I've disabled Zincati auto-updates and rebased to the previously working CoreOS version with the following command:sudo rpm-ostree rebase "ostree-image-signed:docker://quay.io/fedora/fedora-coreos:43.20260105.3.0" --bypass-driverEdit: Thanksu/Twinkle_Titsfor pointing me tohttps://github.com/paschun/fcos-layers, this has a CoreOS container with bcachefs I can use. I'm also considering writing my own Containerfile and this will be a great resourse to start from.8upvotes·20comments
Is there a Fedora version that has all the stuff normal Fedora can't ship? Is there a Fedora version that has all the stuff normal Fedora can't ship?u/MasterQuest•23 days agoIs there a Fedora version that has all the stuff normal Fedora can't ship?SupportRecently I tried Fedora KDE, and I had trouble getting Steam to show up in the Discover app. The RPM Fusion Non-Free toggle was enabled of course, but it didn't help.I tried that thing with the installing the rpm fusion app stream metadata through console, but that was also unsuccessful (I got the response that the appstream metadata packages weren't found).I was still able to install steam and nvidia drivers with the command line, but I prefer having a graphical interface to do that, and therefore I really want them to show up.I tried Nobara, because it had Steam preinstalled. I didn't like their custom package manager though, and they apparently advise to not use discover instead of their custom manager, because it can break things.That got me thinking: Is there a distro or spin that is based on Fedora KDE but has the RPM fusion and other stuff available in Discover without needing to set it up?
glycin-svg issue glycin-svg issueu/Small-Piece-2430•3 days agoglycin-svg issueDiscussionSince I upgraded to fedora 43, I am facing the issue of glycin-svg crashing randomly and Its also consuming a lot of CPU percentage on idle.Is anyone else facing the issue? Is there any fix? and why it's only an issue in fedora 43.
Flatapks aren't loading my fonts Flatapks aren't loading my fontsu/ihackedthepentagon•12 days agoFlatapks aren't loading my fontsSupportSo I recently installed Fedora Kinoite. Since it's an atomic distro, I have almost everything installed as a flatpak, and one of these apps is the Brave browser. Yesterday I noticed that I was getting the rectangle symbol when foreign language characters appeared. I've dealt with this before so I figured that just installing the missing fonts would fix it. I grabbed a zip file of all the noto fonts and placed them on ~/.local/share/fonts. And well... It did not fix it, at least not for the flatpaks. I did notice that on the firefox that comes installed with the distro, my fonts are loading correctly, but on my flatpaks (Brave, Discord, etc.), they are not. And yes, I did use flatseal to add "~/.local/share/fonts" to the list of directories my flatpaks are allowed to access, that did not fix it either.EDIT: I fixed it. All I had to do was delete ~/.cache/fontconfig
Install fedora 43 kde trough PXE Install fedora 43 kde trough PXEu/KarpaThaKoi•11 days agoInstall fedora 43 kde trough PXESupportI'm trying to install fedora with iventoy. Everything is right until the live CD boots.I get a SELinux error:localhost-live del troubleshoot[1744]: SELinux is preventing accounts-daemon from watch access on the directory /etcand it don't let me start the anaconda installer. It asks for a password but it's supposed to be an empty password.Any ideas of how can I fix this issue?
Stuck on boot Stuck on bootu/No_Technician_8031•12 days agoStuck on bootSupport
Firefox on fedora asks to "touch your security key" when I do not have one. Firefox on fedora asks to "touch your security key" when I do not have one.u/lokiwhite•3 days agoFirefox on fedora asks to "touch your security key" when I do not have one.SupportHi there,On two different fedora devices when I try to log in to a service that uses passkeys (e.g. microsoft office or icloud), which on windows results in a qr code being displayed that I can scan with my phone, instead I am given the notification "touch your security key to continue". I have no security key to touch on either device. I have been able to get around the issue in most instances thus far, but is anyone aware of a fix or can at least explain the issue to me?I have not included device details simply because this has happened on multiple devices across multiple versions of both fedora and firefox.
Login screen monitor Login screen monitoru/ImNotWolframium•4 days agoLogin screen monitorSupportHey, I recently started dualbooting Linux and chose Fedora 43. Everything works surprisingly well except for one thing. It's more of a quirk that just kinda pisses me off.Basically, i have two monitors. One of them is in landscape and one in portrait because I don't have space to have both of them in landscape. I have plugged them into my GPU in a way where the entire boot process and my windows login screen correctly shows on the landscape monitor. But, Fedora's login screen doesn't, and instead shows on the portrait monitor, which causes it to be sideways because screen rotation settings only load after login. Is there any way to make Fedora show the login screen on the main monitor without switching the cable order on the GPU (i tried that and it worked, but then the boot process and windows login appeared on the incorrect monitor instead)? I am kinda new to Linux so sorry if this is a dumb question.
Fedora Game Problem Fedora Game Problemu/Money_Tip863•4 days agoFedora Game ProblemSupportHello guys,I installed fedora after hating microsoft for adding ai crap and other things, but now, when I try to run games it barely runs. I have a msi thin a15 (rtx4060 version) and most games don't even launch. some do, but after stressing it a bit it just force-closes the game. i am very lost, but I mainly love this linux distro as is it pretty stable. Please help me, not even GTA San Andreas worked which is a 20 year old game. (I tried to run the .exe file in steam, lutris and heroic games launcher with a lot of proton versions( experimental, 10-28 and more ) .
Intermittent Screen Freezes where only a hard reset helps. Specs in OP, also steps taken trying to mitigate things. Intermittent Screen Freezes where only a hard reset helps. Specs in OP, also steps taken trying to mitigate things.u/Drachenherz•4 days agoIntermittent Screen Freezes where only a hard reset helps. Specs in OP, also steps taken trying to mitigate things.SupportSpecs:Mainboard: ASUS ROG B650E-F Gaming WifiCPU: AMD Ryzen 7 9700x (tuning via PBO, curve optimizer, 105 TDW)RAM: 32GB DDR5 6000MHzu (via Expo profile)GPU: Sapphire Radeon Pulse RX 9070 XT.OS: Fedora 43 KDE Plasma, Kernel 6.18.xProblem: Intermittend screen freezes, no reaction from mouse/keyboard, can only get out of it by hard reset (reset button). Logs after new boot about last boot don't show anything conclusive. Freezes appear randomly. Only on desktop use so far, never during gaming.Tried:- setting PCIe to Gen4 instead of "auto"- Switching to Kernel 6.17.1- turning off powermanagement features of the GPU- edit: also turned off the iGPU in the BIOS-> of no use, random freezes still happened (while in normal Desktop use. On a sidenote: Freeze happened once even while I was booted in Win 11 pro (25H2). So probably not an isolated Linux-Problem.Yesterday evening, I updated BIOS from 3026 (or something) to vers. 3602 (from ASUS support page). After about 1 1/2 hours of useage, it didn't freeze. I hope the BIOS-Update settled it, but in case not: What else could I still try?
Overwrote Winodws partition and installed fedora twice. Overwrote Winodws partition and installed fedora twice.u/BoredGamer1385•8 days agoOverwrote Winodws partition and installed fedora twice.Support
How easy is it to install rpm Nvidia drivers for gaming ? How easy is it to install rpm Nvidia drivers for gaming ?u/Common_Sherbert846•5 days agoHow easy is it to install rpm Nvidia drivers for gaming ?DiscussionHi all , I am currently on Cachy os and it is going ok but I  was thinking about using Fedora . Is it a simple task to install Nvidia drives through rpm or is it more complex ? Would the switch be worth it overall ? Many thanks
Undervolting Intel Undervolting Intelu/TickfordXR6•5 days agoUndervolting IntelDiscussionIs there any app similar to intels XTU to undervolt 14th gen cpus on linux? Cant seem to find anything & if I do its not compatible ect.
Drive cloud connections Drive cloud connectionsu/Tektolol•11 days agoDrive cloud connectionsSupportHey! I am a big newbie and I want to set up a cloud storage connection. Essentially I want to see my cloud folders in my file manager as if I was using a USB or a harddrive. I want to move away from big providers such as google and picked JottaCloud as my first alternative. However I am having trouble setting it up correctly. Is this even possible with all cloud providers or are there any specific ones you would recommend?I want something that easily manages/stores photos from my phone and where I can store files that I can access on my pc, laptop and my phone.
GRUB can’t boot Windows 11 after BIOS update unless Secure Boot is disabled GRUB can’t boot Windows 11 after BIOS update unless Secure Boot is disabledu/Darayavaush84•11 days agoGRUB can’t boot Windows 11 after BIOS update unless Secure Boot is disabledSupportSince yesterday I’ve been facing a strange issue. I updated my motherboard’s BIOS. At the time, I underestimated the fact that Secure Boot keys can be wiped, but that wasn’t a big problem: I quickly re-imported the NVIDIA key and Fedora started working again without issues.What I don’t understand is that now GRUB can no longer boot Windows 11. The entry is there, but when I select it the screen just turns black (the monitor stays on) and Windows never loads. If I boot Windows directly by setting it as the default in the BIOS, it starts without any problems.The only way to make Windows boot through GRUB is to disable Secure Boot. In that case everything works correctly and the OS starts normally. I’ve already tried regenerating the GRUB configuration and even reinstalling GRUB, but nothing helped.I’d really like to keep Secure Boot enabled. Does anyone have a suggestion? I have Fedora 43 KDE.
Second display problem Second display problemu/Tommy1459DM•12 days agoSecond display problemSupportSecond display problemr/framework•12 days agoSecond display problem2upvotes·8comments
Windows cert update KB5074109 Windows cert update KB5074109u/Old-Recognition6356•12 days agoWindows cert update KB5074109DiscussionApparently Windows update KB5074109 updated some certificates on my computer. These certificates would have expired in June 2026.So as I have secure boot on and I am dual booting Fedora KDE Plasma and Windows 11 this of course caused trouble for my Fedora. During boot I did for a very brief time see message “Nvidia kernel module missing, falling back to nouveau”.Luckily it was easy to google and offered fix was to runsudo /usr/sbin/kmodgencasudo mokutil --import /etc/pki/akmods/certs/public_key.derFor me the first command returned WARNING: EXISTING KEY PAIR and also suggested using --force argument to overwrite. I did no such thing I such proceeded to enter the second command, gave it a password to be used after reboot and then I rebooted. Next did what the computer asked to do.That got away the Nvidia / Nouveau message.- - -Update: Sorry, maybe I was giving too terse explanation of the events as it appears some commenters below did not get the essence of the incident. Let me elaborate further.Mentioned Windows update was only update installed, at least there is nothing else listed in the Windows update history. It triggered bios update on my computer (Acer Nitro 5) and firmware was updated from 2.18 to 2.19 (I believe the 2.18 actually had the cert update, but this was forced update to the latest version). The mentioned Windows KB update description includes mention of the soon-to-be expired certificates. The bios update did cause the cert used by Fedora to be deleted or some other way invalidated. This is understandable as Microsoft, nor my computer manufacturer do not care about anything else than Windows. Note that this is the only time my bios/firmware was updated automatically. I have manually updated it one time some months ago as there were multiple updates listed on Acer’s site and those updates were not applied automatically.If there was a separate update not listed on the Windows update history and not related to the mentioned KB then I of course apologize connecting the mentioned KB to this incident 🙂The commands I gave above can anyways be used to rectify the situation.
should I switch to it? should I switch to it?u/gabrielbr1802gcc•22 days agoshould I switch to it?Discussionkinda lost, Im fed with microsoft bs, Ive dealt with linux in past (ubuntu/mint), not much pleasant but both in work/study related stuff, now I wanna dual boot, my question is, is fedora good for a daily drive? I main study non programing stuff and I still wanna rock a few games (all from steam and genshin impact), but if not possible Its fine, not my top priority.
Laptop Crashes and Shuts Down When Gaming Laptop Crashes and Shuts Down When Gamingu/TroubleshooAcc•4 days agoLaptop Crashes and Shuts Down When GamingSupport
Issues with Flatpak Timeouts and 2.4GHz Wi-Fi Connectivity on Fedora Issues with Flatpak Timeouts and 2.4GHz Wi-Fi Connectivity on Fedorau/Downtown_Repeat_1346•12 days agoIssues with Flatpak Timeouts and 2.4GHz Wi-Fi Connectivity on FedoraSupportHello,​I recently switched from Ubuntu to Fedora, and I am facing two specific issues that I need help with:​1. Software Center (Discover) Timeout Error: During installation, I enabled third-party repositories. However, whenever I try to install an app (like Steam or Prism Launcher) via Discover, it stays stuck on "Waiting" for about 20 minutes before failing with a long error message ending in [28] timeout. This happens consistently with most applications.​2. Wi-Fi Connection Issues (2.4GHz vs 5GHz): My router broadcasts two bands: a standard 2.4GHz and a 5GHz band. My room is far from the router, so the 5GHz signal is very weak. Fedora refuses to connect to the standard (2.4GHz) band and keeps trying to prioritize the 5GHz one, or fails to maintain a stable connection on the 2.4GHz band. I had a similar network issue back on Ubuntu as well.​I would appreciate any guidance on how to fix these repository timeouts and how to force the system to stabilize the 2.4GHz connection.​Best regards,
beginner needs help beginner needs helpu/Super_Golf_1743•12 days agobeginner needs helpSupport
Comment gérez-vous efficacement les PDF sur Fedora ? Comment gérez-vous efficacement les PDF sur Fedora ?u/PleasantBit9739•7 days agoComment gérez-vous efficacement les PDF sur Fedora ?Discussion
Fedora 43 download stuck at 52% Fedora 43 download stuck at 52%u/KipIngram•12 days agoFedora 43 download stuck at 52%SupportHi.  I'm trying to have the Software application download Fedora 43, so that I have it local before committing to a restart/install.  It's just stuck at 52%.  Closing the software app and re-opening it just takes me right back to that in-progress download.What should I do here?  Should I just leave it open and wait, hoping it will eventually finish, or should I close it, clean up some intermediate state, and try again?The computer seems entirely fine - this is just a download, not a mid-progress installation, so I'm  not overly worried.  But I don't know the best way to proceed, so I'm hoping for some advice.Oh, I should note I'm stepping to 43 from 41, not 42.Thanks in advance!
Switched to Fedora Switched to Fedorau/ForzaFormula•26 days agoSwitched to FedoraDiscussionHey!Long time Windows user here with Linux experience from running hobby servers. I used to use openSUSE occasionally as a daily driver, and I was going to switch back to it last night but the installer stick refused to even boot for some bizarre reason. I thought this is my chance to finally try Fedora, so I did with Fedora Media Writer.Everything just worked. Drive flashed. Installer loaded. Disk selection was easy, clearly labeling manufacturer and capacity. Booted into the familiar KDE interface. Third party repos installed with one click. Nvidia drivers with two commands. Steam with one. Installation and update allowed through Discover also. Boom boom boom. Everything. Just. Works.I have been really impressed by Fedora 43 KDE Plasma. I had a baseless prejudice towards Fedora being very non-accepting towards non-free software but considering how easy everything has been, from codecs to GPU drivers, I was clearly very wrong.Of course, I can't say for sure I will be using fedora a month or year from now, but so far everything has been really promising.I also had a minor hiccup with an ext4 secondary drive, files had to be recoveres from lost+found, I'm not really sure what happened. It could've been something corrupted because I only temporarily mounted that thing, or maybe the fact that the drive is just old and cheap. Anyways, I switched to Btrfs for secondary drives with on-boot mounting as a precaution.I'm really impressed with Fedora. Keep up the good work, volunteers. 🫡
Mouse key rebind Mouse key rebindu/Shavrka•3 days agoMouse key rebindSupportCan I somehow rebind my mouse key on Red Dragon K1NG PRO (model: M916W-PRO-1K) because they have software for W.... And I use Fedora, so I'm curious can I do that, because otherwise I have buttons for decoration then. haha
Looking to switch from Bazzite to Fedora, got any tips for me? Looking to switch from Bazzite to Fedora, got any tips for me?u/No_Technician_8031•12 days agoLooking to switch from Bazzite to Fedora, got any tips for me?DiscussionBazzite is nice and all but the immutable nature of the distro is starting to get to me and since the disto is based on Fedora, it only makes sense to switch to Fedora.Are there any tips you can give me since I am well aware Bazzite did a lot of hand holding. Also some help with Nvidia drivers would be nice too.My Specs are:Device Name: Lenovo LOQ 15IRH8 CPU: Intel Core i5-12450H GPU: Nvidia Geforce RTX 3050 Laptop GPU RAM: 16GB DDR5
Just replaced Windows with Fedora on an old laptop, suggestions for cool things Just replaced Windows with Fedora on an old laptop, suggestions for cool thingsu/meghrathod•12 days agoJust replaced Windows with Fedora on an old laptop, suggestions for cool thingsDiscussionSo here’s the thing, I have an old Acer Nitro 5 Spin, 8th Gen with GTX 1050 (I know nvidia is frowned upon on Linux communities or maybe it was, it’s been a while). I was looking for cool stuff that I can have running on there all the time. For now I was thinking a small LLM, maybe Pihole, but wanted suggestions for other things where I can possibly use my GPU, (maybe jellyfin and transcoding media). I’ve disconnected battery and the laptop will live in a corner of my house always plugged in. Everything will connect to it with Tailscale.
Artifacts on Gnome49's system apps. Artifacts on Gnome49's system apps.u/CrispyBoye•12 days agoArtifacts on Gnome49's system apps.DiscussionHi, I've been using fedora since 35, and had successful upgrades to major versions ever since. It's been about a month that I'm on Fedora 43 both on my laptop and my desktop, both with integrated graphics (desktop -> intel core i5 6600k, laptop -> amd radeon gold).Since the upgrade to 43, `the gnome-text-editor`, `papers`, and `ptyxis` have random artifacts remaining on the screen. That happens on both devices. For example i can run an `ls` command and after running `clear`, parts of some letters still remain and blink while typing. Same thing happens to the `gnome-text-editor`. Finally `papers` has trouble rendering the number of the current page or total pages and fixes it after i hover over it.I understand that these can be negligible, but they are getting annoying especially since i prefer using the gnome system apps. On the old `gnome-terminal`, and `evince` there is no issue.Has anyone experienced anything similar?  Could the issue be on the new Adwaita Mono font not rendering properly? I couldn't tell because i can't always recreate it. It can go a full day without anything happening, and the next day be consistent. If you think this is too irrelevant, i will take down the post.Thanks in advance.
Issues with auto suspend session? Issues with auto suspend session?u/JohnnyDollar123•6 days agoIssues with auto suspend session?SupportI've recently installed fedora onto my desktop and it consistently fails to wake after leaving it idle for long periods. Normal suspend works fine so I can turn it off and on again and it will work, but if it shuts off automatically (if i leave it on), or when I leave it for too long after suspending it manually, when I attempt to start it again the fans will spin and peripherals receive power, but there's no display and the only fix is a complete restart.I updated the bios, which didn't work. I thought it might be issues with hibernating vs sleep, so i disabled hibernation in sleep.conf, but that hasn't noticeably changed behavior either. I even tried disabling suspend session altogether in settings, but it still froze if I left it running for too long, even though theoretically nothing should have changed.I'm kinda at my wits end atm, so if any one could even just help me disable auto suspend that'd be great.I'm on fedora 43 kde with an amd gpu.
Fedora 43 i3 on HP ZBook Nvidia Quadro M2000M Fedora 43 i3 on HP ZBook Nvidia Quadro M2000Mu/nonFungibleHuman•12 days agoFedora 43 i3 on HP ZBook Nvidia Quadro M2000MScreenshot
Installed Fedora next to Bazzite and windows -- now Bazzite is gone from boot menu Installed Fedora next to Bazzite and windows -- now Bazzite is gone from boot menuu/kirsanrx•6 days agoInstalled Fedora next to Bazzite and windows -- now Bazzite is gone from boot menuSupportHi. I installed Fedora KDE alongside my existing Bazzite on the same NVMe drive. After installation, Bazzite no longer appears in GRUB. Only Fedora and Windows show up.The Bazzite partition (~1.2TB, btrfs) is still there and untouched.So it seems the system still exists, just no boot entry.It also looks like fedora created new GRUB, as all setting changed.Anyone know the safest way to restore the boot entry?
Have they fixed the WINE "regression" from Fedora 42 to Fedora 43? Have they fixed the WINE "regression" from Fedora 42 to Fedora 43?u/Stickhtot•3 days agoHave they fixed the WINE "regression" from Fedora 42 to Fedora 43?DiscussionThis is the only thing keeping me from updating, I know there was a thread outside of reddit about this regression but I can't find it
i keep hearing how great Fedora is, but IS IT? i keep hearing how great Fedora is, but IS IT?u/NerdCrave•3 days agoi keep hearing how great Fedora is, but IS IT?DiscussionI've heavily used all versions of Windows since 3.1, as well as a couple of Mac computers, and I have 2 older computers with Linux Mint on them. I am looking for the perfect modern distro for relatively new computers. I have a brand new MSI all-in-one, and a 2 year old ACER 3060 gaming laptop. I want to ditch Windows forever. I will be gaming on Steam, editing videos with ShotCut, as well as browser-based stuff, running a Plex server, and torrenting. Is Fedora as user-friendly as Mint? i dont want to have to mess around with command line any more than absolutely necessary. I have a buddy who is a Linux super user, so I can get him over to help for the advanced stuff, but day to day i just want it to work, and be slick and smooth and have the widest compatibility and the most up-to-date drivers
Changed GRUB cfg and lost LUKS splash screen Changed GRUB cfg and lost LUKS splash screenu/JDCxD•12 days agoChanged GRUB cfg and lost LUKS splash screenSupportI am newish to linux. I have a good understanding of coding and computers in general and have dabbled a bit in linux. Running Fedora GNOME. I was having an issue where on reboot my computer wasn't picking up my NVIDIA card and was not showing anything on screen unless I swapped to on board graphics via hdmi. So I followed chat gpts advice and changed /etc/default/grub to include some setting that sets nvidia=1. Then I did grub2-mkcfg and overwrote the "uefi" location (according to chagpt that location was /boot/efi/EFI/... (I forget the rest)). Upon reboot, I noticed that I actually saw bios and the luks screen with my graphics card being the only thing plugged in. However, I lost the fancy luks screen for Fedora! Now if this is only a graphical thing I really don't care, however, I am really just asking if I messed anything up by doing this.
just installed fedora and wanted to know if it is safe to update this microsoft stuff just installed fedora and wanted to know if it is safe to update this microsoft stuffu/69enjoyerfrfr•11 days agojust installed fedora and wanted to know if it is safe to update this microsoft stuffSupport
[Gnome] Just got my desktop setup on my Fedora 43 Thinkpad [Gnome] Just got my desktop setup on my Fedora 43 Thinkpadu/No_Dare_1809•27 days ago[Gnome] Just got my desktop setup on my Fedora 43 ThinkpadScreenshot[Gnome] Just got my desktop setup on my Fedora 43 Thinkpadr/unixporn•27 days ago[Gnome] Just got my desktop setup on my Fedora 43 Thinkpad107upvotes·13comments
Moving OS to different drive. Moving OS to different drive.u/Kopiniu•12 days agoMoving OS to different drive.SupportI'm currently dual-booting Windows and Fedora on two separate SSDs, but I want to experiment with other distros without the fear of accidentally wiping my drive clean. I figured the best way to do that would be to move Fedora to the same drive as Windows, but I don't know how or if it's even worth trying. I know this question has been asked many times before, but I can't find a guide for Fedora 43, and I'd rather ask people with real experience than an AI that might brick my whole PC. Also, my partition containing Fedora is 500GB and I don't have that much space on my second drive. I also don't need all of that free space so probably the best solution would be to reduce it to something like 300gb but I don't know how to do this too. As you can probably see, I'm not a Linux veteran so any help would be appreciated.
Couldn't install Kinoite Couldn't install Kinoiteu/spiffyhandle•12 days agoCouldn't install KinoiteSupportI ran into three different bugs with the Anaconda installer. I wanted to setup encrypted btrfs partitions with two subvolumes: the default fedora_fedora and a separate data one. This didn't work. Then I gave up and said fine I'll take the default btrfs partitioning settings and won't ask for a second subvolume. That gave a different error message. Do all the atomic distros use the same installer? If not, which one has the most stable installer and then I can rebase into the spin I desire?I was able to install Fedora KDE (non-atomic) but unfortunately, I can't convert that into an atomic OS.
K3B issues K3B issuesu/ItzAzalea•5 days agoK3B issuesSupportI am trying to use K3B to burn a cd and I keep getting this error, I am an extreme novice when it comes to linux and fedora so if I could get some help on what to do it would be appreciatedBelow is the error I am getting-Devices-----------------------HL-DT-ST DVDRAM GP63EX70 RF02 (/dev/sr0, CD-R, CD-RW, CD-ROM, DVD-ROM, DVD-R, DVD-RW, DVD-R DL, DVD+R, DVD+RW, DVD+R DL) [DVD-ROM, DVD-R Sequential, DVD-R Dual Layer Sequential, DVD-R Dual Layer Jump, DVD-RAM, DVD-RW Restricted Overwrite, DVD-RW Sequential, DVD+RW, DVD+R, DVD+R Dual Layer, CD-ROM, CD-R, CD-RW] [SAO, TAO, RAW, SAO/R96P, SAO/R96R, RAW/R16, RAW/R96P, RAW/R96R, Restricted Overwrite, Layer Jump] [%7]System-----------------------K3b Version: 25.12.1KDE Version: 6.22.0Qt Version:  6.9.3Kernel:      6.18.7-100.fc42.x86_64Used versions-----------------------cdrecord: 1.1.11cdrecord-----------------------/usr/bin/wodim: Operation not permitted. Warning: Cannot raise RLIMIT_MEMLOCK limits.scsidev: '/dev/sr0'devname: '/dev/sr0'scsibus: -2 target: -2 lun: -2/usr/bin/wodim: Cannot allocate memory.Cannot open SCSI driver!For possible targets try 'wodim --devices' or 'wodim -scanbus'.For possible transport specifiers try 'wodim dev=help'.For IDE/ATAPI devices configuration, see the file README.ATAPI.setup fromthe wodim documentation.Text len: 3726TOC Type: 0 = CD-DAcdrecord command:-----------------------/usr/bin/wodim -v gracetime=2 dev=/dev/sr0 speed=24 -sao driveropts=burnfree textfile=/tmp/k3b.bMtFPA -useinfo -audio /home/itzazalea/Videos/k3b_audio_0_01.inf /home/itzazalea/Videos/k3b_audio_0_02.inf /home/itzazalea/Videos/k3b_audio_0_03.inf /home/itzazalea/Videos/k3b_audio_0_04.inf /home/itzazalea/Videos/k3b_audio_0_05.inf /home/itzazalea/Videos/k3b_audio_0_06.inf /home/itzazalea/Videos/k3b_audio_0_07.inf /home/itzazalea/Videos/k3b_audio_0_08.inf /home/itzazalea/Videos/k3b_audio_0_09.inf /home/itzazalea/Videos/k3b_audio_0_10.inf /home/itzazalea/Videos/k3b_audio_0_11.inf /home/itzazalea/Videos/k3b_audio_0_12.inf /home/itzazalea/Videos/k3b_audio_0_13.inf /home/itzazalea/Videos/k3b_audio_0_14.inf /home/itzazalea/Videos/k3b_audio_0_15.inf /home/itzazalea/Videos/k3b_audio_0_16.inf /home/itzazalea/Videos/k3b_audio_0_17.inf /home/itzazalea/Videos/k3b_audio_0_18.inf /home/itzazalea/Videos/k3b_audio_0_19.inf /home/itzazalea/Videos/k3b_audio_0_20.inf /home/itzazalea/Videos/k3b_audio_0_21.inf
How is nova+nvk+zink holding up these days? How is nova+nvk+zink holding up these days?u/ea_nasir_official_•6 days agoHow is nova+nvk+zink holding up these days?DiscussionI'm super curious as to how the new open source Nvidia drivers are working. I haven't tried them yet, and I want to hear how close we are not just in Phoronix benchmarks, but how usable they are day to day
[Fixed] Fedora 43 KDE "Bootloader failed to install: Could not remove old uefi boot entry/ could not set a new uefi boot target" [Fixed] Fedora 43 KDE "Bootloader failed to install: Could not remove old uefi boot entry/ could not set a new uefi boot target"u/AlternativeCry9662•12 days ago[Fixed] Fedora 43 KDE "Bootloader failed to install: Could not remove old uefi boot entry/ could not set a new uefi boot target"SupportHello everyoneI was trying to install fedora 43 kde on my new laptop acer aspire 14 go AI pc (125H) . I went with a clean install removing Windows 11The software installation step completed successfully but in the ‘installing bootloader step’ it failed and said : “Installation of bootloader failed , failed to remove old uefi boot entry”I then rebooted the laptop and this time the error had changed to " could not set a new uefi boot target "Here are all the fixes i tried and settings i used -Tried install with encryption enabled and disabledTried installing with and without internetTried disabling and enabling secure bootTried clearing all old boot entriesTried to clean the nvram dumps with commandsTried to manually create a new boot entryTried to copy grub’s files and shim’s files in the UEFI BOOT.X64 (I am sorry if that is not the correct place , I don’t remember exactly) which is the universal fallback for every uefi biosI tried to rename the grub’s files to windows boot managerI tried to install with a completely clean driveI tried to install with manual partitioning All of these didnt work . The fix was thisWhile you boot into the live usb , on the grub screen where it says “Test media and start fedora desktop live” press ‘e’On the line which starts with ‘linux’(second line in my case ) go to the end of the line and enter these commands separated by spaces in between -efi_no_storage_paranoia intel_iommu=off pci=nocrs nvme_core.default_ps_max_latency_us=0What this is :Apparently the 125H new meteor lake chips has some security features which makes it paranoid if linux tries to write a new boot entry . This command tells it to allow linux to write the boot entry in the bootloaderI hope this helps.
Trackpad scrolling speed very high inside TUIs or cli text editors in Ptyxis Trackpad scrolling speed very high inside TUIs or cli text editors in Ptyxisu/RJ23lolwa•4 days agoTrackpad scrolling speed very high inside TUIs or cli text editors in PtyxisDiscussionHave been using Fedora Workstation 43 since it released, but there's this thing been bothering me forever, the trackpad scrolling speed works normally in Ptyxis, but whenever I launch tuis like htop, btop or editors like nano or vim, the scrolling speed becomes superfast inside these. Kde Konsole doesn't have any such issues, is it specifically a Ptyxis thing? I haven't tried other terminal emulators in gnome.
question questionu/DayInfinite8322•12 days agoquestionDiscussionanybody feeling, arch linux is now a days more stable than fedora.in fedora recently have lot of crashes and freezes on both gnome and kde.
Fastfetch configuration Fastfetch configurationu/Exotic-Deal6832•7 days agoFastfetch configurationSupportI'm clueless about fastfetch configuration but i wanna know where to find downloadable logos (not photos) or if it's possible to turn photos into letter logos, any kind of tools online made for that or that can do that (i tried searching online but i couldn't find anything)
issues installing HP Linux Imaging and Printing issues installing HP Linux Imaging and Printingu/hlebushe_k•5 days agoissues installing HP Linux Imaging and PrintingSupporti have an HP LaserJet Pro MFP M28w printer. i use it both like a printer and a scanner, so i nedd hplip to scan. when i first tried to install it, i needed to install python3-pyqt4 because it failed to download it itself. after i had downloaded it myself, everything went fine untill it saidDEPENDENCY AND CONFLICT RESOLUTION----------------------------------Running 'sudo dnf -y -d 10 -e 1 install python3-pip'Please wait, this may take several minutes...error: Package install command failed with error code 2warning: Some HPLIP functionality might not function due to missing package(s). [['notify2', 'notify2']]note: More information is available athttp://hplipopensource.com/node/369i installed python3-pip using sudo dnf -y install python3-pip, but it still runs this command and crashes. i also tried to erase this command from .run file, but it is so long that it can't load properly. what should i do?
How to make Fedora XFCE boot faster How to make Fedora XFCE boot fasteru/sanjai28•12 days agoHow to make Fedora XFCE boot fasterDiscussionI'm using Fedora XFCE 43, it's feel shower boot so support me boot faster YY video, Articles
My Fedora 43 Gnome 49 keeps crashing and it is unbearable My Fedora 43 Gnome 49 keeps crashing and it is unbearableu/EmergencyKooky7029•14 days agoMy Fedora 43 Gnome 49 keeps crashing and it is unbearableSupportI have moved from Windows 11 to Fedora 43 and I have been using it for a couple of months now. I have used previous versions of Fedora in the past, and I always loved it. But with Fedora 43, things have been very different and difficult for me.Apps keep crashing for no obvious reason. NOT A SINGLE DAY PASSES WITHOUT ME HAVING TO FORCEFULLY SHUTDOWN THE LAPTOP MULTIPLE TIMES(and no, it is not an exaggeration). Just before writing this I had just shutdown the laptop because My Files, of all apps stopped working and the screen just froze. I thought VS Code was the problem since I am always on it and maybe the extensions were too much for the laptop, uninstalled the extensions, still nothing. I have a basic workspace: VS Code, Cursor, Firefox, Zen, Docker, and Chrome, that’s it.But using the OS has been unbearable.I have a 11th Gen Intel Core i3 x4 Lenovo laptop, 12GB RAM DDR4, 256GB NVMeI opened a Ask Fedora discussion, all the log images are there:https://discussion.fedoraproject.org/t/fedora-43-gnome-49-crashing-apps/180307
Rebooted and now I am stuck here what do I do I want to like linux so badly but I always run into unbeatable jank Rebooted and now I am stuck here what do I do I want to like linux so badly but I always run into unbeatable janku/TechieInTheTrees•26 days agoRebooted and now I am stuck here what do I do I want to like linux so badly but I always run into unbeatable jankSupport
Fedora on a Xiaomi Pad 7? Fedora on a Xiaomi Pad 7?u/Visual-Skirt-4075•12 days agoFedora on a Xiaomi Pad 7?DiscussionI want to install Fedora 43 on my Xiaomi Pad 7, anyone knows if there are any bricking risks due to possible OS-Hardware incompatibility issues? Has anyone tried directly installing any Linux Distro on one?
Steam actually have the best remote desktop that just works flawlessly. Steam actually have the best remote desktop that just works flawlessly.u/yevelnad•28 days agoSteam actually have the best remote desktop that just works flawlessly.DiscussionI would love steam to enable it without opening a game. Linux to windows vice versa just works flawlessly. I would have never known that I can use it as RDP by minimizing the game. 😄 And the best part Is maybe I can use tailscale with it. I did not try it though.
Are 2 Feodra Boot options normal?(not including rescue edition) Are 2 Feodra Boot options normal?(not including rescue edition)u/Monkeyhunter129•12 days agoAre 2 Feodra Boot options normal?(not including rescue edition)Support
Центр приложений в Fedora 43 Gnome завис на загрузке обновлений данных. Центр приложений в Fedora 43 Gnome завис на загрузке обновлений данных.u/No_Dimension540•12 days agoЦентр приложений в Fedora 43 Gnome завис на загрузке обновлений данных.SupportЯ абсолютный новичок и недавно решил перейти на Fedora, но столкнулся с тем, что после утановки центр приложений завис на загрузке обновлений. Я пытался отыскать решение, но так и не смог разобраться с этим.
JetBrains on Fedora with KDE Plasma vs Gnome JetBrains on Fedora with KDE Plasma vs Gnomeu/turbofish_pk•12 days agoJetBrains on Fedora with KDE Plasma vs GnomeDiscussionJetBrains on Fedora with KDE Plasma vs Gnomer/Jetbrains•12 days agoJetBrains on Fedora with KDE Plasma vs GnomeI am in the planning phase of creating a dual boot dual disk system. I want to install Fedora KDE Plasma or Fedora Workstation with Gnome.One of the most important criteria for my selection is how good JetBrains performs on each of those options.Do you have any recommendation? Is it true that JetBrains works better and even recommends Gnome?Thank you so much in advance.PS Has anyone had better experience with the IDEs on Ubuntu and Gnome in vs Fedora?PS 2 I am a very experienced developer and have some experience with Linux as well. But now I am considering the possibillity of using it as my main system for everything.EDITTo all who responded. Thank you so much for the information. I just finished formatting a second SSD drive and since you gave only positive feedback, I will install Fedora KDE Plasma.9upvotes·12comments
Gnome Software won't start but gives no error message (Fedora 42, 43) Gnome Software won't start but gives no error message (Fedora 42, 43)u/notVeryAnAdrien•7 days agoGnome Software won't start but gives no error message (Fedora 42, 43)SupportI can't be sure of when it started, but for a while, Gnome software hasn't worked on my Fedora session.I'm currently running Fedora 43 (Workstation x86_64), but the problem was already here before I upgraded. I tried uninstalling/reinstalling Gnome Software, but it didn't help :/The most puzzling is that it gives no error messages. When I try to open it, it does nothing for a while, then stops trying. When I launch it from the terminal (with or without the `--verbose` argument), it just says `Timeout was reached`.Meanwhile, `dnf` and `flatpack` are working perfectly from the terminal, so I guess it's not a big problem.Have you ever seen this problem before?
Any ideas? Any ideas?u/Theboyfromasgard•4 days agoAny ideas?DiscussionI was able to install and run CATIA V5, but I have problems with screen tearing, flickering, and little tabs doing what they want... (this happens only when I try to reach for the tools, outside of the main window with the 3D model). Any suggestions how to fix it? (everything else works tho..)
Broken bootloaders after installing fedora Broken bootloaders after installing fedorau/Fun_Drive_9330•12 days agoBroken bootloaders after installing fedoraSupportSo before all this i had a working linux mint + windows 11 dualboot, i decided to try fedora so i backed up my configs and installed fedora. I setup mountpoints so that fedora root will be put in mints root partition and /boot/efi in the boot partition ofcourse. When the installation completed i was dropped into grub rescue and as the error message shows in the image it appears to try to boot from mint which doesnt exist so it obviously fails, I boot into the live usb again trying to fix by deleting the ubuntu EFI folder, reinstalling grub but that still doesnt help and i also found that somehow windows bootloader also got deleted somehow. I disable secure boot in uefi settings and look through the boot options but the only choices are drive names, not OSs like fedora or windows or ubuntu. Im really stressing over this ive been trying to fix for a few hours but i cant boot into anything atm except for the live usbI shouldve completely deleted mint first and its bootloader then installed fedora in that unallocated space but I didn't 🥲
Cpu spike in fedora atomic Cpu spike in fedora atomicu/Leather-Thought4975•6 days agoCpu spike in fedora atomicDiscussionMade a system update in fedora cosmic atomic, the cpu is 💯 usage when idle/standby. Not sure, but btop shows a processes named "kworker/3: 1+slub" and "kworker/1:2+slub" having 99.8% cpu usage with 0B memory usage.
Can't UEFI boot, can't dualboot windows even at live USB, nvram entries get deleted at restart Can't UEFI boot, can't dualboot windows even at live USB, nvram entries get deleted at restartu/Weak_Sea7955•3 days agoCan't UEFI boot, can't dualboot windows even at live USB, nvram entries get deleted at restartSupportI had fedora 39 in my PC with dualboot with windows,I had to reinstall fedora 43 with kde trough a live USB because I close by error the process when dnf refresh was working... but after they and so much attempts with live USB, grub tools, bootefimgr and trying to set dual boot, I just can't boot in UEFI mode... I only can use my fedora partition in legacy mode, not even a windows live USB. I cant uefi boot now... Using bootmgr with chroot in a live USB UEFI mode, when I restart PC all nvram entries disappear.  I've been reading a lot and trying to find the solution the last 5 days, without success, I just can't get what's happening with the biosbtw, I just changed my cmos, so it's newany help or guidance please?
Brightness issue with nvidia Brightness issue with nvidiau/__skywalker_-•3 days agoBrightness issue with nvidiaSupportIm new to fedora , after completion of setup(fedora 43 ,kde ) , i found that the brightness control is not working with my Display . It's an asus tuf a15 , Nvidia 3050 and Ryzen 7. Can anyone tell me how to fix it ?
How do I use gcc in Fedora Atomic ? How do I use gcc in Fedora Atomic ?u/lemmings189•12 days agoHow do I use gcc in Fedora Atomic ?SupportHello,I want to do a basic "gcc prog.c -o prog", how can I do that within Fedora Silverblue,Kinoite,Cosmic.. ?I looked on gcc website, but couldn't manage to find a binary, and with the source, I'd need to build it, but how can I build something on an atomic distro ...?Thanks a lot,
Steam - fedora workstation rpm vrs flatpak ? Steam - fedora workstation rpm vrs flatpak ?u/MasterDokuro•13 days agoSteam - fedora workstation rpm vrs flatpak ?SupportEDIT #2: Today mutter 49.3 arrived and this seems to have fixed this problem.EDIT: Never-mind, gnome-shell just crashed so made no difference moving to flatpak.Upon some additional checking it appears to be a known bughttps://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/mutter/-/issues/4489which will be fixed in the version of mutter shipping with gnome 50.  I'll just live with the bug until then.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------A little context - I've been using fedora since around f33. always gnome not kde. I play games from time to time and up until recently have never had a problem. I've always installed steam via rpmfusion and always had nvidia cards which currently is a 5070 using a three monitor setup.Over the last couple of months, pretty much since this issue was fixedhttps://www.reddit.com/r/Fedora/comments/1p6abim/new_mesa_drivers_available_in_fedora_to_address/its been hit or miss every time I choose to start steam if gnome-shell would crash or not. About 50% of the time it would increasing to 100% if I had not started steam in a few days and my PC had not been restarted. A full reboot would always fix it but its got to the point that I just cannot deal with it any more.So, a few days ago I removed the rpm installed version of steam and have gone and installed the flatpak version (along with the steam-devices package which is not in flatpak). So far (and while its only been a few days), I've not run into any gnome-shell crashed using the flatpak version however it does feel a little slower to start and navigate.While I know asking for opinions here is likely to be divisive but if there are preferred way to install steam ?  Also, anyone else experiencing the gnome-shell crash when starting steam.
Wifi/bluetooth replacement for thinkpad t14 gen 2 intel. / how to get ax201 bluetooth on fedora Wifi/bluetooth replacement for thinkpad t14 gen 2 intel. / how to get ax201 bluetooth on fedorau/Suspicious-Couple489•12 days agoWifi/bluetooth replacement for thinkpad t14 gen 2 intel. / how to get ax201 bluetooth on fedoraDiscussionWifi/bluetooth replacement for thinkpad t14 gen 2 intel. / how to get ax201 bluetooth on fedorar/thinkpad•12 days agoWifi/bluetooth replacement for thinkpad t14 gen 2 intel. / how to get ax201 bluetooth on fedoraI have a few questions about this model.Is there a way to get the Intel AX201 driver on Fedora or Arch?Is the Wifi card removable or soldered? (I don't want to unscrew the laptop yet so I'm asking)If it is removable, what Wifi/Bluetooth card do you recommend?Overall I really like this laptop. Right now I'm running Ubuntu 24.04 on it as it is the only distro I found that supports the ax201 well. Thanks in advance (Ineedto get off ubuntu asappp pls help)1upvote·2comments
IDK if I've done it right (Blurry screen) IDK if I've done it right (Blurry screen)u/sovbyte•3 days agoIDK if I've done it right (Blurry screen)DiscussionIDK if I've done it right (Blurry screen)r/kde•3 days agoIDK if I've done it right (Blurry screen)I use monitor+laptop setup, both are 1080p with 24" and 15.6" sizes. When I used it with mixed scaling (125% for laptop and 100% for monitor) I've noticed that my monitor is blurry in many applications. I tried to make them both 100% and it kinda fixes blurriness but laptop's screen is basically unusable because of the scale. I can live with that but I got annoyed that I needed to change scale to 125% when using it without external screen and go back to 100% when it is plugged in.I've seen that scaling is common problem on linux and people say to use bigger font but I don't find it as a good solution so I've wrote this little script to check if my monitor is connected and based on that change the scale of my laptop screen.https://github.com/sovbyte/kde-wayland-auto-scaleI will appreciate if you tell me smarter solution or find my little piece of script useful3upvotes·1comment
Trying to install SKLauncher on Linux Trying to install SKLauncher on Linuxu/AramCZ•12 days agoTrying to install SKLauncher on LinuxSupportTrying to install SKLauncher on Linuxr/SKlauncher•12 days agoTrying to install SKLauncher on LinuxI want to install SKLauncher on Linux but java doesn’t work so I put it in a Distrobox then install java and Temurin it says Can’t create a Java Virtual Machine I don’t know what to do I just wasted 1 hour of my life for nothing and I don’t wanna put it on Lutris because I think it’s just bad running it through Wine please help somebody I just wanna play Minecraft1upvote·10comments
Apps taking 3-5s to open AND close on Fedora 43 (GNOME 49) | HP Victus, RTX 3050 (Hybrid) Apps taking 3-5s to open AND close on Fedora 43 (GNOME 49) | HP Victus, RTX 3050 (Hybrid)u/Common_Cost5879•12 days agoApps taking 3-5s to open AND close on Fedora 43 (GNOME 49) | HP Victus, RTX 3050 (Hybrid)SupportPost Body: Hi everyone,I’m experiencing significant lag on Fedora 43 Workstation with an HP Victus (i5, RTX 3050). Ever since the update, there is a consistent 3-5 second delay whenever I open or close an application (Files, Chrome, Terminal, etc.).System Info:OS: Fedora 43 (GNOME 49, Wayland)GPU: NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3050 MobileDriver: 580.119.02 (Open Kernel Modules / Dual MIT/GPL license)Setup: Hybrid Graphics (Intel iGPU + NVIDIA dGPU)What I’ve already tried (to save you time):GSP Firmware: Tried disabling GSP via modprobe and grubby. However, since I'm on the NVIDIA Open driver, GSP remains active/required and cannot be disabled (verified via nvidia-smi -q).Environment Variables: Added GSK_RENDERER=ngl and CLUTTER_BACKEND=wayland to /etc/environment—no noticeable improvement.X11 Session: Fedora 43 has removed the X11 session for GNOME, so I am strictly on Wayland.Portals: Verified xdg-desktop-portal-gnome is active; no conflicting KDE/other portals installed.Driver Health: nvidia-smi shows gnome-shell is correctly using the dGPU.The lag happens during window creation and destruction. It feels like the compositor is waiting for a "handshake" or sync from the NVIDIA driver that is timing out.Is this a known issue with the 580 series Open Drivers on Fedora 43? Should I try rolling back to the proprietary (closed) driver to see if disabling GSP actually works there, or is there a specific Wayland sync fix I'm missing?Thanks for any help!
Monitor won't reestablish connection after screen blank and lock Monitor won't reestablish connection after screen blank and locku/Weird-Ninja8827•13 days agoMonitor won't reestablish connection after screen blank and lockSupportHas anyone else encountered this problem on F42 Workstation lately? It only started in the last month, I would say.I'm running a desktop and do not have it Sleeping or Hibernating. It is just lock the screen and within a minute or so, I cannot jiggle the mouse nor hit a key to bring up the password prompt.The monitor gives up and goes back to sleep after a minute and I'm left with holding down the power button and rebooting.Which sucks.Is this some Mesa BS from a recent update that I missed hearing about?
Retroarch Fedora Workstation 43 KDE Plasma - Scaling display causes RA to render off screen Retroarch Fedora Workstation 43 KDE Plasma - Scaling display causes RA to render off screenu/Exhaust8354•13 days agoRetroarch Fedora Workstation 43 KDE Plasma - Scaling display causes RA to render off screenSupportHello.I have RetroArch installed via the Fedora maintained repository. I have found a strange issue. When I have RetroArch running on my monitor at 1440p and 100% scaling, RA displays correctly.When I move my display output to my tv screen, I set the resolution to 4k and set the KDE Plasma desktop to scale at 250% because the text is extremely small otherwise.I find that when windowed, RA displays fine but when I go full screen, I just see 25% of the screen space in the menu (think of seeing just the first menu item and 3 options below it).I did not have this issue in GNOME but am curious if any fellow XDE Plasma users here have seen this.
Laptop (Thinkpad t495s) speaker is worse in Linux (Fedora) Laptop (Thinkpad t495s) speaker is worse in Linux (Fedora)u/Sk8tzu_Fre3ni4c•13 days agoLaptop (Thinkpad t495s) speaker is worse in Linux (Fedora)DiscussionI got my laptop secondhand and I didn't waste time to install Fedora right away. I have been using my laptop for months now and I thought that t495s's speaker just sound tinny, so I left it that way, however, when I installed Tiny11 for a software which only works on Windows (NI-Elvis) I tried playing songs on it and the difference is evident. I searched online ways to improve audio on Thinkpads and I'm great I stumbled upon this (https://github.com/shuhaowu/linux-thinkpad-speaker-improvements/). My speakers sound great now, the difference is astonishing! Though it's much quieter than windows.For other laptop owners, what did you do with your speakers? Does it sound worse, did you keep on using it that way, or it just sound the same? Can you recommend me some other QOLs?I also have a desktop, and it didn't sound any worse or better than Windows. This is the reason why I just shrugged off the tinny sound of my t495s's speakers for quite a long time.
Fedora 43 display brightness control issues after upgrade Fedora 43 display brightness control issues after upgradeu/theanandaproject•13 days agoFedora 43 display brightness control issues after upgradeSupportI recently upgraded to Fedora v43 on my Asus ROG Zephyrus GU605 and everything went great, it even fixed a long-standing SD card readed issue. The only issue I found now is that the display's brightness control on my keyboard stops working after a while, having to restart to get it to work again.For context, here's my GRUB startup command which is needed to give my onboard AMD GPU control over backlight and remove it from my NVIDIA discrete GPU:GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="rhgb quiet rd.driver.blacklist=nouveau,nova_core modprobe.blacklist=nouveau,nova_core i915.enable_dpcd_backlight=1 nvidia.NVreg_EnableBacklightHandler=0 nvidia.NVreg_RegistryDwords=EnableBrightnessControl=0"Any ideas if this is a known issue?
How to install Network Simulator 2 on fedora KDE How to install Network Simulator 2 on fedora KDEu/Vishal-Sodmise•12 days agoHow to install Network Simulator 2 on fedora KDESupportI want to install ns2 on fedora, for educational purpose. I search the web for it, but nothing founds helpful. I always get error while make in c files and tlc files. I try to manually patch those files but nothing work. Installing ns2 on debian and ubantu looks easy as lots of aeticall and tutorial shows how to install ns2 on ubantu.Please give me a detailed steps to install ns2.
Have been using ubuntu now switched to fedora workstation few queries need suggestions Have been using ubuntu now switched to fedora workstation few queries need suggestionsu/Minimum-Row6464•19 days agoHave been using ubuntu now switched to fedora workstation few queries need suggestionsDiscussion
Switching to Gnome? Switching to Gnome?u/Positive-Incident221•17 days agoSwitching to Gnome?SupportHi all. I'm currently on Fedora KDE but KDE is feeling a bit unstable sometimes (apps often crashing or freezing), so I've been thinking about switching to fedora. Anybody know if there's a way to switch to gnome without losing everything on my system? I'm not sure if gnome is for me, but i just really wanna try it out for a week or smth.
NVIDIA Hybrid Graphics Options NVIDIA Hybrid Graphics Optionsu/Mindless_Display1994•3 days agoNVIDIA Hybrid Graphics OptionsDiscussionHello all, I have a Dell Precision laptop with an NVIDIA GPU. I wanted to ask if anyone knows of the most reliable way to get something like Ubuntu's 'prime-select' feature on Fedora. I want to be able to 'switch-off' the NVIDIA GPU because hybrid graphics never works properly with respect to power efficiency. I am aware of Envy control but it has not received updates in a while. I also had it wreck my display setup on Debian when switching modes. What do y'all use?
Just made my first commit! Just made my first commit!u/Confident_Essay3619•1 mo. agoJust made my first commit!DiscussionHey guys.Just merged with the main atomic docs repository and i didn't do much but i did contribute!I added an "and" in index.adoc and i rewrote part of the Flatpak and Flathub installation process so it was less confusing.Waiting for another one to get merged right now.
Running a CachyOS "Cube" Under Fedora 44 Running a CachyOS "Cube" Under Fedora 44u/cyclingroo•3 days agoRunning a CachyOS "Cube" Under Fedora 44DiscussionWhile running Gnome Software last week, I started getting a message that Fedora 44 was available for installation. This was certainly a software error. After all, the software won't even be in beta form until March. Obviously, its time in Rawhide status had expired - as is the case for all upcoming releases. So, I just ignored the message for the time being.But I have spent way too much time in my Linux journey using rolling releases. So, my eagerness got the best of me. I decided to see what would happen if I accepted the offer to upgrade to Fedora 44 (pre-release). At worst, I would have to nuke and rebuild. Fortunately, that is a simple process in my current workflow. So, I swallowed hard - and pressed the freaking button.And as I suspected, things did not go well - though they did not go horribly. I ended up on Fedora 44 pre-release. And I was on the 6.19-rc8 kernel. That was the good news. But the bad news is that the network stack was just different enough to disable the use of Proton VPN (via the CLI or the app).Well, shucks.   It was time to nuke and go - except I didn't. After spending thirty seconds thinking about my situation, I realized I had enough RAM to run my main OS as a fully-functioning host. And when I needed to use a VPN, then I could spin up an Arch VM featuring CachyOS and Hyprland. From within that VM, I could easily run the Proton VPN CLI.Usually, my exuberance outruns my thoughtfulness. And that usually results in running my image rebuild scripts. But in this case, it resulted in something quite interesting - my own instance of a qubes-related OS (but not a full QubesOS instance). I can't - nor would I try - to reverse-engineer the good work of the QubesOS team. But our community is about taking the good things from one implementation and then applying them to a different implementation. In this case, I've tinker-toyed a mashup of pre-release Fedora, CachyOS, and Proton services. At the moment, I have a grin on my face. It may not last. But this journey is about taking risks - and learning. And I'm glad for any journey that leads to learning.
Finally launched into Fedora Finally launched into Fedorau/Medium-Heart-6356•14 days agoFinally launched into FedoraDiscussionI have been teetering on making the jump into Fedora for a very longtime.  My journey started with VMS and Unix.  Learned the basis of my scripting ability with those OS’s.  When LINUX came out, I ran it on an old desktop and then in VMs(not be confused with the OS VMS).  My company uses RHEL and I’ve gotten more exposure.Yesterday I downloaded 43 and put in on a thumb drive.  I shutdown Windows 11 on my Lenovo IdeaCentre mini 01IRH8 for the last time. The install went well.  Fedora runs 1000 times better than Windows 11.  None of the chunkiness or bloatware.  I set right into customizing to my liking.Once up and running I started configuring Fedora under the covers.
I built a native GTK4/Rust Emoji Picker for GNOME (Available on COPR) I built a native GTK4/Rust Emoji Picker for GNOME (Available on COPR)u/RussKazik•27 days agoI built a native GTK4/Rust Emoji Picker for GNOME (Available on COPR)Announcement
KDE 43 - AppImages and games not displayed in app menu KDE 43 - AppImages and games not displayed in app menuu/AnkoNight•12 days agoKDE 43 - AppImages and games not displayed in app menuSupportHello everyone,When I use Gears Lever to manage AppImages applications, I have the option to integrate the AppImages directly into the app menu. However, in my case, it doesn't do anything, but the app is corretly installed and working.Also, when I make a research of the AppImages in the app menu, I have the app, I can launch the app, but if I want to edit it, the KDE menu editor shows blank and disabled inputs.I also have the same problem with Steam games. When I install a game, it doesn't go to the app menu Games folder like it used to. And again, I can't edit them with KDE menu editor.If I install an app throught Discover or with a terminal command, the app is correctly integrated in the app menu.I can't find anything online but guides on how to install AppImages, but it's not my current issue.
43 vs Kinoite and Silverblue 43 vs Kinoite and Silverblueu/chris32457•1 mo. ago43 vs Kinoite and SilverblueDiscussionWas curious, those of you who switched from 41, 42, 43 to the supposedly more stable Atomic Silverblue or Kinoite versions, was that change noticeable? Helpful/useful? Worth it?43 KDE Plasma has been working just fine for me, but I can't help but be more curious about something supposedly more stable.If I went silverblue or kinoite, can I install software via the terminal or am I restricted to flatpaks? Maybe I can pull from the official fedora repo's on terminal?Also curious about gaming differences. Any drop in quality there?Thanks!EDIT: OK. It sounds like Atomics are good if you're going to stick to Flatpaks. Thanks all.
Speaker quallity on Dell Latitude 9430 Speaker quallity on Dell Latitude 9430u/PackageDangerous3084•12 days agoSpeaker quallity on Dell Latitude 9430SupportSpeaker quallity on Dell Latitude 9430r/linux4noobs•12 days agoSpeaker quallity on Dell Latitude 9430I installed fedora on my dell latitude 9430, there was some problems with internal display running at 0 fps, but I've managed to fix it, it works nice now, but the problem that my speakers sound bad. They are quiter, and the bass is non existant, first ive intalled easy effects, I've tried presets and doing something on my own, but when I try to get more bass or make my laptop louder it sounds like my speakers are on their limit already, and the sound quality becomes only worse, which leads me to belive that maybe woofers on my laptop arent used, which explains why they are quiter and lacking in bass. Is there any way to check if the quad system speakers are working or not, and if not, to fix them?Audio controllerRealtek ALC711-CGStereo conversionSupported, 24-bit DAC (Digital-to-Analog) and ADC (Analog-to-Digital)Internal audio interfaceSoundWire interfaceExternal audio interfaceUniversal audio jackNumber of speakersFourInternal-speaker amplifierRealtek ALC1319DExternal volume controlsKeyboard shortcut controlsSpeaker output:Average speaker outputPeak speaker outputSubwoofer outputSupportedMicrophoneQuad-array microphoneHere are the specs of my speakers I was able to find on Dell's website:2upvotes·5comments
HELP! sudo.conf and sudoers files not owned by root! (Fedora 43) HELP! sudo.conf and sudoers files not owned by root! (Fedora 43)u/ZayaJames•13 days agoHELP! sudo.conf and sudoers files not owned by root! (Fedora 43)Support
Why is fedora installation so hard Why is fedora installation so hardu/Guilty_Implement3910•3 days agoWhy is fedora installation so hardDiscussionI ve been trying to install fedora for over 2 hours, its either i was blocked by the time zone bug or with the screen suddenly freezing, i disabled secure boot and tried all chatgpt recommendation but nothing works.I have a nvidia 3060 whivh might be the cause, how can i solve this or walk around it?
[Help] ThinkPad E16 Gen 3 - Audio Jack/Analog Sink Missing after BIOS Update [Help] ThinkPad E16 Gen 3 - Audio Jack/Analog Sink Missing after BIOS Updateu/Responsible_Pea_4009•13 days ago[Help] ThinkPad E16 Gen 3 - Audio Jack/Analog Sink Missing after BIOS UpdateSupportI’m on a ThinkPad E16 Gen 3 (Intel Arrow/Meteor Lake) running Fedora 43. After a BIOS update, my analog audio (speakers/jack) vanished, and only HDMI/DP shows up. I’ve tried the standard SOF driver flags(I don't exactly know what this is but I was following advice from AI, I know I shouldn't be doing it but I was kinda tired and wanted it to work) and various ALSA model quirks, but the analog sink still won't initialize in Pipewire. It seems like the BIOS update broke the hardware.As a note all the audio stuff works perfectly on my Windows partition. I had Ubuntu before Fedora and I still had the same issues. I assumed I broke it so I wanted to do a fresh install. I also wanted to switch to Fedora so things just worked out.
EasyEffects back to 7.2.5. Thanks Fedora Linux for keeping the old version. EasyEffects back to 7.2.5. Thanks Fedora Linux for keeping the old version.u/_charBo_•5 days agoEasyEffects back to 7.2.5. Thanks Fedora Linux for keeping the old version.SupportOn Fedora Silverblue. I use EasyEffects to improve audio, and I don't mind how the new 8.x version looks or anything. But it frequently stops working in between audio tracks or when a video switches to a commercial (during the pause or transition). I have to restart EE and the audio or video again. I found one bug report that seemed to indicate a Pipewire regression is at fault, but after switching back to 7.2.5 the problem is gone. Anyone experience this problem with 8.x on Fedora and figure out how to make it work? I've searched but maybe I have a searching skill issue. Anyway, I'm glad Fedora didn't rush to update the app to the newest version in their hub. Maybe that is the only fix.
Stream Software Update Stream Software Updateu/Prestigious-Pair8731•12 days agoStream Software UpdateNews
Please Help Me Urgent!!!! Please Help Me Urgent!!!!u/epsilon_404•13 days agoPlease Help Me Urgent!!!!Support
Windows 10 to Fedora KDE Windows 10 to Fedora KDEu/RageShadey•5 days agoWindows 10 to Fedora KDEDiscussionAlright~So. I've been a windows individual for a while. I pretty much have a few oddities with it on how I do things.Taking screenshots of windows and desktops to have it immediately copied into the dashboard so that I can then quickly hit the windows key, open paint, paste it and crop out or edit things I need to before pasting it somewhere or just immediately pasting it in a chat on discord as is. Takes me like a few seconds.Using a virtual hard drive created on my nas to store all the games and emulators I play while having the actual launchers on my computers hard drive to prevent too much issue but worked great.Using obs to capture the game and audio to different virtual audio cables along with discord chat to a seperate audio cable all from my actual desktop audio allowing me to listen to music on the desktop audio while the game and the chat is on a different line that I can select which is being captured by stream.These are the main things I do on my pc.Game.Discord.Obs.Screen/window captures.I do some coding in visual studio and intelliJ and design a bit with blender and Unity. More hobby like then professional.It's been like 3 days and I'm still struggling a bit to get the hang of things.I got img's instead of vhdx for the storing seems to be working fine.I am using a flatpak obs now but had issues getting game capture working and it doesn't audio capture naturally so I'm trying carla as a work around but now trying to create a sink of some kind to have the game routed through that into obs but it's not working yet. Like it's setup but obs isn't recognizing it as an audio input only as an output.Overall the whole process has been a very daunting task and my technical knowledge and researching is being challenged so I may just be out of my depths here.WITH ALL OF THAT SAID.....I'd still rather go through the trial by fire than go to windows 11. XDStill struggling but wanted to just get this posted somewhere.
WIFI Problem WIFI Problemu/Glum-Echidna1983•13 days agoWIFI ProblemSupportWIFI Problemr/kde•13 days agoWIFI ProblemI am new to linux . My wifi automatically keep connecting and disconnecting again and again . I am on fedora kde and my wifi chip is realtek . I tried many solutions but none of them works i tried chat gpt and he says realtek is worst for linux . I have to use my internet through wired connection which is not comfortable for laptops. If any one of you have faced same problem and solved that issue please let me know. ??? Will changing distro helps??Edit:-WIFI --> Realtek RTL8821CE Tired methods--->Turned off wifi power savingTried manually installing drivers of rtl8821ce from githubI have built in chip of wifi1upvote·15comments
Fedora on Ipad air M3? (with UTM) Fedora on Ipad air M3? (with UTM)u/Visible-Reason9593•5 days agoFedora on Ipad air M3? (with UTM)SupportDon't ask me why but:How to use Fedora KDE with UTM on Ipad air M3?Which iso should I install for arm?I doubt anyone has done it but just in case...any advice?Thank you :)
ASUS TUF F15 (2022) – Need to hold power button 30–40 seconds to turn on after Linux shutdown, Windows works normally (dual-SSD setup) ASUS TUF F15 (2022) – Need to hold power button 30–40 seconds to turn on after Linux shutdown, Windows works normally (dual-SSD setup)u/Head-Fan3693•13 days agoASUS TUF F15 (2022) – Need to hold power button 30–40 seconds to turn on after Linux shutdown, Windows works normally (dual-SSD setup)SupportHi everyone,I’m facing a strange but very consistent power-on issue on my laptop, and I’m trying to figure out whether this is a firmware / EC / ACPI / Fast Boot interaction issue.Laptop Details :Model: ASUS TUF F15 (2022)CPU: Intel i5-12450H (12th Gen)GPU: RTX 3050RAM: 16 GBBIOS: ASUS BIOS (latest available)Boot Mode: UEFIFast Boot: EnabledDual Boot: Windows + LinuxStorage / Partition Layout (Important)This is a dual-SSD setup, not a single-disk install:SSD 1 – 512 GB (Separate SSD)Contains Windows OS onlyWindows boots and shuts down normallySSD 2 – 1 TB (Internal SSD)Mostly used by Windows dataPartition layout (in order on disk):Windows data partitionsEFI System Partition (shared)Linux partition (~400 GB)Currently Fedora KDESo:Windows OS = 512 GB SSDLinux OS = 1 TB SSDEFI = on the 1 TB SSD, between Windows data and LinuxLinux Distros AffectedThis issue occurs on every Linux distro I’ve used, including:Fedora KDE (current)KDE NeonUbuntuSo it doesn’t appear distro-specific.The ProblemIf I shut down Linux:Laptop does NOT power on with a normal pressI must hold the power button for ~30–40 seconds every single timeIf I boot Windows, shut it down, then power on:Laptop turns on normally with a short pressKey observations:Happens only after Linux shutdownHappens on all Linux distrosWindows power behavior is always normalWhy I Don’t Think It’s a Hardware IssuePower button works perfectly in WindowsLong press always eventually turns the laptop onConsistent behavior across multiple Linux distrosThis feels like a firmware / embedded controller (EC) state issue, possibly involving:ACPI power statesWindows Fast BootModern Standby / S0ixImproper EC reset during Linux poweroffWhat I’ve TriedMultiple Linux distributionsFull shutdown (not suspend)BIOS inspectionIssue persists across reinstallsQuestionsCan Windows Fast Boot being enabled leave the EC / firmware in a bad state for Linux shutdown?Is this a known ASUS EC / ACPI issue on Intel 12th gen laptops?Does Linux fail to fully power off the EC compared to Windows?Are there known workarounds (EC reset, systemd poweroff override, kernel params)?Any help is appreciatedEven confirmation that this is a known ASUS firmware limitation would be very helpful.Thanks 🙏
Im a newbie, please help Im a newbie, please helpu/Fabulous-Set4934•3 days agoIm a newbie, please helpSupportSo… i’m really not understanding Fedora.Apparently i can’t run Fedora on Wayland because i have an NVIDIA graphics card.I come from Linux Mint, and there with x11, i was able to use it for years as normal. But then after installing Fedora, and booting it through Wayland, i downloaded the NVIDIA drivers and wasn’t able to configure it. After that, i booted up the Plasma x11 that came on installing the system and was able to set it up as normal.Upon searching through, x11 is going to be discontinued by GNOME and therefore they are going to have only Wayland as an usable option.What i want help is: can i keep using Fedora via Plasma X11, while getting their updates? Or will i be obligated to switch to Wayland? (and maybe have to change my GPU because of that?).Because if so, i’ll just go back to Mint and keep using x11 normally lol.
Black screen help Black screen helpu/Male747•6 days agoBlack screen helpSupport
Fedora+Jakoolit's hyprland script Fedora+Jakoolit's hyprland scriptu/Tryll-1980•13 days agoFedora+Jakoolit's hyprland scriptDiscussionI just have to say I love this combo. I have Nvidia 4090 dgpu and inter processor. First installed Fedora KDE and then used the jakoolit fedora hyprland script with the dotfiles. Then spent a couple of days to customize it my way. The workflow is just amazing. Anyone else running this kind of setup? Any other good dotfiles to look into (must contain all the Nvidia stuff)
the process for the tags protocol died unexpectedly the process for the tags protocol died unexpectedlyu/SpinstrikerPlayz•5 days agothe process for the tags protocol died unexpectedlySupportHey, so when booting in F43 KDE, I keep getting this pop up saying the message mentioned in the title. Ive tried rolling back to older kernel versions and it still happens. I’m unable to open up the terminal or any apps, except Dolphin. This happened right after an update, so I’m trying to roll back with btrfs assistant, but I can’t do that when I can’t open any apps.edit I managed to open up btrfs assistant using Dolphin’s in-built terminal with F4 but when I go to restore I get “failed to make a backup of target sub volume“edit 2: I found out something called baloo. I deleted the files inside of it, did a reboot, and the tags error is gone, but I’m still unable to open any apps except dolphin and btrfs-assistant through Dolphin’s terminalim trying to open stuff from the terminal like Vivaldi and Brave and it’s showing something about failed to create and singleton lock: no space left on device. This doesn’t make sense because I have 54gb left of space.FIXED: Fixed it. Tried to run a balance but didn’t work so I deleted some snapshots. Basically I saved too many snapshots and I was able to run a balance and everything seems to be good again.
Is this the right way to setup automatic btrfs snapshots for F43? Is this the right way to setup automatic btrfs snapshots for F43?u/Kypheron•13 days agoIs this the right way to setup automatic btrfs snapshots for F43?SupportSo what I did is that I dnf install snapper, btrfs-assistant, grub-btrfs (so I don't have to liveusb incase fedora doesn't boot past grub), and python3-dnf-plugin-snapper. For the grub-btrfs I used this copr:https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/kylegospo/grub-btrfs/and after starting the snapper timeline and cleanup service systemctl I didn't touch any config. May I know if this is the right way, and if there's any config I might want to change? (There's more commands; I'm just giving a general idea since its working but I might not know if this is the intended way. I also don't know how to test the pre/post dnf snapshot.)
make fedora transparent make fedora transparentu/Away_Air1915•13 days agomake fedora transparentSupporti want to make gnome windows like settings and files and all system apps transparent im  using gnome and dont want full theme i want just to make windwos transparent
I was trying to figure out a file size conversion error on Fedora 43, and learned that the memory sizes... use the binary instead of the decimal prefix. I have been using Linux for 20 years and didn't even know this until today. I was trying to figure out a file size conversion error on Fedora 43, and learned that the memory sizes... use the binary instead of the decimal prefix. I have been using Linux for 20 years and didn't even know this until today.u/Unusual_Midnight_523•13 days agoI was trying to figure out a file size conversion error on Fedora 43, and learned that the memory sizes... use the binary instead of the decimal prefix. I have been using Linux for 20 years and didn't even know this until today.DiscussionSuch as mebi and gibi.  I am still in shock lolThat's why I would seeMiB and GiB, notMB and GB
Linux User Form Linux User Formu/Born-Cup9597•1 mo. agoLinux User FormDiscussionheyo! i made a form to figure out what the most popular linux distro, DE, and other stuff is. if you fill it out it would be much appreciated :Dhttps://forms.gle/FDLUuE6Dhp2DBf4UA
is it possible to have a audio mixer similar to windows mixer? is it possible to have a audio mixer similar to windows mixer?u/whoisgrime•13 days agois it possible to have a audio mixer similar to windows mixer?Supportis it possible to have a audio mixer similar to windows mixer?r/kde•13 days agois it possible to have a audio mixer similar to windows mixer?Hi everyone i was wondering if in kde plasma is possible to have a mixer similar to the windows mixer, because i use different audio interfaces and i do some fancy routing things. I'll try to explain me better: if i want to listen the audio of an application through a specific audio interface is it possible to have another application that plays the audio through a different interface?I tried messing with the kde audio settings, and tried Kmix but i did not find what i wanted, and again looking on the web i did not found what i'm looking for, thanks (i don't know if it matters but i'm on fedora 42 kde).edit:I forgot to mention that when I plug in my headphones, I can’t choose whether to use them or the laptop speakers.In the first part of the video, the headphones are plugged in, and when I unplug them I can use the laptop speakers:https://imgur.com/a/YZxRRiBIs it possible to keep the headphones plugged in while using the laptop speakers?3upvotes·9comments
Should i use gnome or kde as a first timer Should i use gnome or kde as a first timeru/Junior-Chicken-4424•10 days agoShould i use gnome or kde as a first timerSupportI'm a windows user my whole life but i've been wanting to switch to linux because windows is getting a little bit tiresome but i don't know which one to pick.
Moving from fedora gnome to kde plasma Moving from fedora gnome to kde plasmau/Similar_Reflection75•13 days agoMoving from fedora gnome to kde plasmaSupportWill installation be the same? I'm installing it on an external SSD.I formatted my previous bootloader and removed partitions from my external SSD. Am I good to go?I'll use Rufus to turn my usb into a bootloader and then boot it into kde live then do the installation on my external drive.
New Fedora KDE 43 install, can't get XBOX controllers to work fully New Fedora KDE 43 install, can't get XBOX controllers to work fullyu/GiSWiG•6 days agoNew Fedora KDE 43 install, can't get XBOX controllers to work fullySupportIts been a while since I've used Linux, finally pushed thanks to Microsoft thinking my 6700k isn't 'A.I.' enough. Trying to get my XBOX controllers to work.Via Bluetooth, PS4, Switch, 8bitdo Ultimate 2.4g Nintendo layout, all work fine.The XBOX controllers connect, they register and the home/logo button is solid. I've gotten an XBOX One and Series X|S connected. I used the fedora guide and others to install the xpadneo driver and used bluetoothctl to get them working. GUI reports them connected. PS4 is great but all mine are used. My XBOX controllers were all purchased brand new.No buttons work. I've tried so many things to get them working. I would prefer to use them. I also tried with the XBOX wireless dongle but I can't get them to connect to that.Anyone have this issue and got through it?
Peoples I want to do game development is it possible on linux Peoples I want to do game development is it possible on linuxu/hrmonyinmymind•13 days agoPeoples I want to do game development is it possible on linuxDiscussion
Laptop dies with around 25% battery (1 year old battery) Laptop dies with around 25% battery (1 year old battery)u/cgpipeliner•5 days agoLaptop dies with around 25% battery (1 year old battery)SupportI replaced my battery one year ago but since since latest upgrade (could be a coincidence) I noticed that the battery is drained even fast than before and when at around 25% the laptop shuts down. I usually get a notification at around 20% and was able to use my laptop for a while until it got critical.Do you have any tips what I can do to investigate?
Need help figuring out how to boot fedora on an external drive Need help figuring out how to boot fedora on an external driveu/i_37•5 days agoNeed help figuring out how to boot fedora on an external driveSupportI have an old macbook pro 13 inch touch bar 256 GB 8GB RAM 2017 model. Its internal ssd had a hardware failure few years ago. I recently decided to revive it by using an external nvme ssd in a thunderbolt enclosure (Acasis TB405 air). Initially I used my gentoo live usb to install gentoo on it, but it was not able to detect the external drive out of the box, so I decided to try it with Fedora desktop since I wanted to test if the device was even supported.Here’s what I did after:I booted from fedora live usb into desktop environment. Plugged the drive into the left thunderbolt port. Fedora warned and asked to "Autheticate once" or "Authenticate permanently", for which I selected to autheticate permanently.After this the drive was accesible in the live system. I installed fredora on it using the fedora installer. The partitions looked fine to me.After installation, during the reboot process, it shows the fedora logo and the loading screen, but gets stuck on this job `Job dev-disk-by\x2duuid-b8fdfaa0\x2ice/start running (5m  in / no limit)`.I tried adding boot params to pause for 30 s and load thunderbolt drivers but that did not help.I even created a UKI and tried to boot from it, but it always got stuck at the same job.I tried with disk labels, uuids and partuuids in the fstab, but none of it helped.I'm not certain if what I'm trying is even possible on this hardware. The fact that fedora logo shows up should be a sign that the drive is readable while boot, right? Or am I missing something here.I would really appreciate the community’s help.lsblk for the drive shows thisnvme1n1nvme1n1p1 vfat    FAT32                               F080-219Cnvme1n1p2 ext4    1.0                                 f460fa0e-ed9c-4e5a-b363-a7ca85d532c8nvme1n1p3 btrfs                    fedora             b8fdfaa0-7d44-4ffd-a59e-5e614ec682c1  457.3G     1% /run/media/liveuser/fedorafstabUUID=b8fdfaa0-7d44-4ffd-a59e-5e614ec682c1 / btrfs subvol=root,compress=zstd:1 0 0UUID=f460fa0e-ed9c-4e5a-b363-a7ca85d532c8 /boot ext4 defaults 1 2UUID=F080-219C /boot/efi vfat umask=0077,shortname=winnt 0 2UUID=b8fdfaa0-7d44-4ffd-a59e-5e614ec682c1 /home btrfs subvol=home,compress=zstd:1 0 0PS: I’ll be able to return the thunderbolt enclosure if the help arrives in time.
Just reinstalled but missing options in Nvidia Just reinstalled but missing options in Nvidiau/Gdiddy18•3 days agoJust reinstalled but missing options in NvidiaSupportHiSo ive just reinstalled Fedora onto the gaming rig now ive officially kicked windows however there is no option for me to increase "digital Vibrancy" which was there when i left like two months ago and ive been searching for an hour and i cant find a solutionSecure boot is disabledPower profile set to PerformanceHDR on and off no differenceI have downgraded the driver it was still missingDisconnected my second monitorI am running the latest Nvidia DriverGeforce 4060 ti5800xThere is an odd think happening that when i go into Nvidia and click on powermizer there is a dropdown there that says "preferred mode" "auto" but then promptly disappears . (screenshot below)Any help would be greatly received as i really need to spread democracy before the clankers take over!
Stylus barely working on Fedora OS, help!! Stylus barely working on Fedora OS, help!!u/Babushka-Polar-Bear•13 days agoStylus barely working on Fedora OS, help!!SupportHello,I just downloaded Fedora on my new laptop that I got yesterday, and I'm having some issues with the stylus being very inconsistent. I've tried looking for different drivers that need to be downloaded and I've been trying various commands in the terminal but I'm just not sure what's wrong :( The system registers the pen, it's just super glitchyOS: Fedora 43Hardware: HP omnibook x flip laptop aiHere is me trying to write "this is a test" in Joplin; it's super laggy and sometimes doesn't even register that I'm writing ;-;
How to move GRUB entries in Fedora 43 How to move GRUB entries in Fedora 43u/hlebushe_k•13 days agoHow to move GRUB entries in Fedora 43SupportI am very, very new to Linux community - especially Fedora. I've just installed it after trying Mint, which I didn't like. There I used Grub Customizer to change the sequence in GRUB. But after I had installed Fedora 43, it was placed at the top. I've tried using the Grub Customizer in Mint, but it didn't recognize Fedora. I heard that there is Grubby, but I couldn't find any explanation how to change the order of entries
Chromium based app issue Chromium based app issueu/frosty_osteo•13 days agoChromium based app issueSupportHiI have problem with chromim-based browsers on fedora workstation. Every time freezes system.Any idea how to fix it?Thanks
Secure Boot Secure Bootu/ForzaFormula•18 days agoSecure BootSupportHow necessary is it really for an average user from a security standpoint?I disabled it to save myself some headache with Nvidia drivers and possibly Gnome Boxes.I only install packages from the official Fedora repos, RPM Fusion or verified Flatpaks. I don't run install scripts, at least not until I've read through them.Cheers.
Browsers dont work on WiFi Browsers dont work on WiFiu/Loose-Obligation-310•5 days agoBrowsers dont work on WiFiSupportHi everyone, ​I’m facing a networking problem. Web browsers (Firefox, Chrome, etc.) take about 5 minutes to load a single page. However, at the same time, terminal operations like dnf install or ping work perfectly with no latency. ​Strange Behavior: ​Hotspot: If I connect via my phone’s hotspot, everything (including browsers) works flawlessly. ​The Cycle: The internet works fine for about 10-15 minutes, then browsers stop working for another 10-15 minutes. This cycle repeats. ​Other Devices: Other devices on the same WiFi network have no issues. ​What I’ve already tried: ​Changed DNS (Google, Cloudflare, ISP). ​Disabled IPv6. ​Tried Cloudflare WARP. ​Adjusted MTU settings. ​Disabled Firewall. ​Tested different browsers. ​I am at my wit's end and considering a clean install, but I’m not even sure if that would fix it since it feels like a specific interaction between my hardware/Fedora and my router. ​Does anyone have any idea what might be causing this "browser-only" lag on WiFi? Any help would be greatly appreciated!
Fedora KDE with domain join crashs Fedora KDE with domain join crashsu/Fair-Proposal1628•6 days agoFedora KDE with domain join crashsSupportHi there,do anyonr have expierence with KDE Plasma and domain join, so that domain users can log in?I have successfully joined the laptop with the domain (Synology Directory Service - Samba based). But when i switch frim local user to a domain user KDE crashs and i can't get in the desktop.According to the logs user authentication isn't the problem.I can post logs in the evening.Do anyone use KDE in Fedora successfully with domain users?
DaVinci on Fedora Workstation DaVinci on Fedora Workstationu/pqptelo•7 days agoDaVinci on Fedora WorkstationSupportThere are any way to import h264 or h265 in DaVinci Resolve on Fedora Workstation? Should I try another distro or no way to do that in Linux? I'm newba in linux, Windows user trying to use another OS.Crosspost to more communities
F43: pipewire[4301]: invalid memory type 8 F43: pipewire[4301]: invalid memory type 8u/MakeTopSite•7 days agoF43: pipewire[4301]: invalid memory type 8SupportPlasma on Wayland.Feb 06 08:59:20 maketopsite rtkit-daemon[1223]: Successfully made thread 44160 of process 44027 (/usr/lib64/firefox/firefox) owned by '1000' RT at priority 10.Feb 06 08:58:57 maketopsite plasmashell[4550]: invalid buffer typeFeb 06 08:58:57 maketopsite pipewire[4301]: invalid memory type 8Feb 06 08:58:57 maketopsite pipewire[4301]: invalid memory type 8Feb 06 08:58:57 maketopsite pipewire[4301]: invalid memory type 8Feb 06 08:58:57 maketopsite pipewire[4301]: invalid memory type 8Feb 06 08:58:57 maketopsite pipewire[4301]: invalid memory type 8Feb 06 08:58:57 maketopsite pipewire[4301]: invalid memory type 8Feb 06 08:58:14 maketopsite systemd[3860]: Started vte-spawn-cab6a3da-fb8c-47dc-ac83-a36c0847cf52.scope - VTE child process 43218 launched by mate-terminal processAnyone other has please seen same problem ?
I've just installed fedora and it stops working after i select my region I've just installed fedora and it stops working after i select my regionu/gianlucastar17•26 days agoI've just installed fedora and it stops working after i select my regionSupport
Moving over from Bazzite Moving over from Bazziteu/CJCfilm•14 days agoMoving over from BazziteSupportI’ve been using Bazzite since switching over from Pop!_OS but I’m wanting more freedom around updates and installation than what Bazzite easily allows. With that in mind I was going to reset and get Fedora KDE as I like the DE and windowing from Bazzite. With being an AMD user (9800X3D and 9070XT) is there anything I overly need to be aware about or should I be fine just going straight on with the live installer?
How to make window buttons consistent across applications? How to make window buttons consistent across applications?u/weLookAbove•21 days agoHow to make window buttons consistent across applications?DiscussionHow to make window buttons consistent across applications?r/kde•21 days agoHow to make window buttons consistent across applications?237upvotes·97comments
Gaming Performance Gaming Performanceu/TickfordXR6•26 days agoGaming PerformanceDiscussionTrying to wrap my head around this. Im all out of ideas now. This isnt just tied to fedora.Specs Legion 7i Pro i9 14900HX 4080 32GB RamGaming performance is very poor lately Cachyos/ Neon KDE/ FedoraStar Citizen very low fps & high cpu tempsSW Outlaws is ok in small areas tho out in open areas becomes sub 30fpsThrone & Liberty is good mostly besides a few frame drops here & thereCant believe im saying this. Installed windows just to see if maybe was a hardware fault ect on my Legion.But all 3 games run smooth with no high temps & fans on max spool.Im not thrashing Fedora or any other distro. Im just trying to see what is wrong or if maybe i missed something. Because all 3 of these games did run perfect not long agoReally the only thing i can think of is could it be the Nvidia open drivers?Thanks
[COSMIC] I fell in love with cosmic DE [COSMIC] I fell in love with cosmic DEu/piD-kun•19 days ago[COSMIC] I fell in love with cosmic DEScreenshot[COSMIC] I fell in love with cosmic DEr/unixporn•19 days ago[COSMIC] I fell in love with cosmic DE277upvotes·19comments
FPS Cap problem with dual monitors FPS Cap problem with dual monitorsu/Forbinned•13 days agoFPS Cap problem with dual monitorsSupportHello, im quite new to fedora, and i have 2 monitors setup, main is 1920x1080 165 hz and the other is 1366x768 60 hz, and i've noticed that games tend to prefer to cap themself to 60 fpsfor example, when playing war thunder and being in hangar - the fps doesn't go over 60 fps and it doesnt' go down either, it just stays at 60 (tho for some reason, if i go into the battle, the fps gets uncapped)when playing osu, the in game fps counter tells me 1 ms (osu lazer limit) and 1000 fps (uncapped), however i can tell with my bare eyes that its running in 60.to further prove my claim, when i unplugged the 60 hz monitor, everything started running with the 165 fps cap.so the question is, can i make it so i can have both my 60 hz monitor plugged in and retain the 165 fps cap? im running fedora 43 workstation with X11 if that helpsthanks in advance.
Have troubles while using bluetooth audio devices Have troubles while using bluetooth audio devicesu/tworus•13 days agoHave troubles while using bluetooth audio devicesSupportLike in the title I have issues with bluetooth audio devices. It works but just poorly and often it's just glitches. Most of the time it work but this glitching audio from time to time just bothers me. Also i'm quite new to linux and trully don't know where to start trying to fix it. I searched this topic but didn't find anything that works.
Game hangs/slow loading after January 2026 updates. Game hangs/slow loading after January 2026 updates.u/Friendlymisanthrope1•14 days agoGame hangs/slow loading after January 2026 updates.SupportThe Zenbook 14 is obviously not a gaming machine. But I have been gaming on it for months now without issue. After recent updates (January 2026) the Steam game that I usually play loads much slower than usual and hangs briefly at certain times. I have been on Fedora 43 since it came out and it is normally stable, this includes heavy workloads like gaming. But this performance regression is irritating. I am on kernal version 6.18. 7-200. Also I have read that certain Mesa version can cause problems and a temporary fix involves rolling back Mesa version. I don't want to start throwing darts in a dark room and hope to hit the bullseye. So rather than guessing I am hoping someone can offer some advice. My hardware is Ryzen 7 350, 32gb ram, 1Tb drive.Edit: Now VPN is not starting properly. Starting to think installing Fedora was a mistake.Update: So I turn on my laptop today and the previously mentioned problems are gone. That is rather strange considering I have not done any updates or made any changes since making my original post yesterday.
How do i get rid of this overlay? How do i get rid of this overlay?u/Fun-Cake-5679•13 days agoHow do i get rid of this overlay?SupportHow do i get rid of this overlay?r/kde•13 days agoHow do i get rid of this overlay?I saw someone else asking the same question and they fixed it by disabling some fps overlay thing but i dont have that here (it disappeared after a kde update)7upvotes·3comments
Issues with nvidia drivers post install on fedora KDE Issues with nvidia drivers post install on fedora KDEu/AnisZoomer•13 days agoIssues with nvidia drivers post install on fedora KDESupportIssues with nvidia drivers post install on fedora KDEr/linux_gaming•13 days agoIssues with nvidia drivers post install on fedora KDEso i tries to install the drivers using these guideshttps://rpmfusion.org/Configurationhttps://rpmfusion.org/Howto/NVIDIAso i would get the legacy 390 drivers to work, but sadly it broke, the boot screen resolution actually increased but then it will black out (with the monitor still on) and i have to unplug the hdmi and replug it to work with 600x400 resolution and when i saw the display setting i found a ghost display with 1050*0 (yes, 0) pixels (its supposed to be 1440*900p) and when i click on it it says the display is unavailable, tried to run the nvidia cpl but it said no compatible display1upvote·12comments
Reconsider Kinoite preinstalled packages Reconsider Kinoite preinstalled packages[deleted]•3 days agoReconsider Kinoite preinstalled packagesDiscussionHi guys,I just installed Kinoite and I have to say I'm shocked on how many more packages/apps it has compared to Silverblue. To be precise, why are there games preinstalled? KDE Connect, Emoji selector, Kdebugsettings, kolorpaint, skanpage??It's smarter to remove it and it's easier to install it later (who needs it) that to remove it and unnecessary customize the image so that updates take a loooong time. Also, added security the leaner the image is.
Problem with bluetooth Problem with bluetoothu/Inevitable_Tax_5083•14 days agoProblem with bluetoothSupportHello everyone. I need help with my bluetooth when i connect my headphones I have crash gnome before gnome I had Kde plasma
Can't get Nvidia drivers working Can't get Nvidia drivers workingu/exhume87•7 hr. agoCan't get Nvidia drivers workingTech support
Found this at the local flea market. Is this the first edition? Found this at the local flea market. Is this the first edition?u/Sosowski•6 days agoFound this at the local flea market. Is this the first edition?
Back to the roots - OpenSUSE TW satisfaction on mini 10'' laptop Back to the roots - OpenSUSE TW satisfaction on mini 10'' laptopu/kwull•1 day agoBack to the roots - OpenSUSE TW satisfaction on mini 10'' laptop
I'm showing you my openSUSE Tumbleweed desktop 😊 I'm showing you my openSUSE Tumbleweed desktop 😊u/maximus10m•20 days agoI'm showing you my openSUSE Tumbleweed desktop 😊
OpenSUSE Tumbleweed KDE Plasma on Chromebook OpenSUSE Tumbleweed KDE Plasma on Chromebooku/3dge-br38ker•1 day agoOpenSUSE Tumbleweed KDE Plasma on ChromebookCommunity
Which coffee tastes the best? Which coffee tastes the best?u/vgnxaa•4 days agoWhich coffee tastes the best?Community
OpenSUSE on Chromebook OpenSUSE on Chromebooku/3dge-br38ker•1 day agoOpenSUSE on ChromebookCommunity
Just Installed Tumbleweed and I cant get my Epson ET3850 To Work Just Installed Tumbleweed and I cant get my Epson ET3850 To Worku/exhume87•12 hr. agoJust Installed Tumbleweed and I cant get my Epson ET3850 To WorkTech supportThe printer is on the same wifi network as the pc. I gave it a static IP address to make it easy to find, and set it up VIA IP Address, and set it up in Yast using that address. I found the driver with the matching model number and the test connection button passed.Then I printed a test page. The printer did respond, but the page came out completely blank. I also tried printing a small sentence in libreoffice with the same result. I am unsure how to continue troubleshooting. Any tips?
openSUSE on 'some potent hardware'. openSUSE on 'some potent hardware'.u/MiukuS•20 days agoopenSUSE on 'some potent hardware'.
Is this cause of any Error??? Is this cause of any Error???u/User_reddit69•2 days agoIs this cause of any Error???
Found these old openSUSE installers Found these old openSUSE installersu/Nagy3D•7 days agoFound these old openSUSE installers
Is it normal for zypper dup to install "release candidate" packages? Is it normal for zypper dup to install "release candidate" packages?u/TheHexWrench•2 days agoIs it normal for zypper dup to install "release candidate" packages?Tech questionI'm currently waiting for the next major release of Mesa (version 26), and I've seen that the official OpenSUSE repo already has version 26rc3 available.Because I haven't noticed this before (and normally don't check, only because I'm waiting for this particular release) - is it normal that release candidates are rolled out? I would have expected the OpenSUSE repo to stay on the latest 25.3 until 26 final drops. But maybe I'm wrong?
Thoughts on openSUSE Tumbleweed Thoughts on openSUSE Tumbleweedu/Medical_Divide_7191•6 days agoThoughts on openSUSE TumbleweedMy Linux journey began around 1996 with SuSE 4.2. At some point, however, I started to hate the system with its reliance on YaST, and since then I've constantly switched Linux distributions. I ended up with Arch Linux, Fedora, and of course Debian. These three distro almost perfectly met my needs. But in January, after reading much about Tumbleweed, I installed a "SuSE Linux" again...after almost 30 years. Okay, I cheated a little bit and ignored YaST and Grub2-BLS during the installation, but what I have to admit afterward: it's fantastic, mindblowing. Tumbleweed is the sweet spot among all the distributions I used. It has (almost) the stability of Debian, almost the up-to-dateness of Arch Linux, and is just as polished as Fedora. Kudos to the entire openSUSE team, what a great job!  After almost three decades, I embrace the chameleon again! But why is Tumbleweed still so underrated when its perhaps one of the best distros on the planet? Or am I wrong?
Various questions & recommendations for Linux-noob for sys setup Various questions & recommendations for Linux-noob for sys setupu/Schroinx•2 days agoVarious questions & recommendations for Linux-noob for sys setupHow to… ?I have two x86 W11 boxes, a home media & file server, a HTPC for 4K HDR movies and occasional gaming, both W11 and a mac air laptop. As the laptop is old, I use MS Remote Desktop to do various desktop tasks, when the laptop is unable and for admin duties.While a noob in Linux, I am a power user in Wintel. So there's that. That and some good guides were also why Nixos could be interesting despite its high learning curve, because it could also be brought back to a working state or updated at leisure, which is also attractive.I had planned to move the server, a CPU 14400, MSI 790, to Debian, and was also interested in Nixos, but as a Linux noob slightly put off by its steep learning curve. I would also likely have installed Fedora on the HPTC (12600K, 790), to dual-boot, as W11 is supposedly the best for HDR due to madvR, as I use that.As I live in a small condo low energy use & low noise is a preference.Now, as things has changed, and I got to look into openSUSE, swhich seems to be an under-appreciated distro, where they both take FOSS seriously, is EU/international, and one can get access to an upstream distro of an enterprise OS, as with Fedora. Win, win.So I kind of planned to run Debian/Nixos with KDE Plasma on the server, but had not selected a remote desktop. What should I install on the server? Does Leap 16 only receive updates for 2 years? Then I have to upgrade or? I got some extra SSDs, so I can dual boot for now, as keeping a W11 on both server & HTPC could come in handy.I had also thought about installing Tumbleweed on the HTPC.What do you recommend?
I'm proud to say: I've thrown W11 in the trash in favor of Tumbleweed I'm proud to say: I've thrown W11 in the trash in favor of Tumbleweedu/rm-rf-npr•17 days agoI'm proud to say: I've thrown W11 in the trash in favor of TumbleweedCommunityI've done my research. Distrochooser, test installations on old hardware (mint, arch, cachyOS, Pop, but also Debian and Ubuntu. However, Tumbleweed has my heart now, what a great distro to use. Bleeding edge, but stable.Along with gaming being greatly supported on Linux by now (except anti cheat games that I don't really play anyway) it's the perfect time to rid myself of the extreme bloat that is Windows.Farewell Microsoft, hello freedom!
Tumbleweed won't boot Tumbleweed won't bootu/TomOnABudget•2 days agoTumbleweed won't boot
Can zswap be enabled in openSUSE? Can zswap be enabled in openSUSE?u/mibolita_exe•2 days agoCan zswap be enabled in openSUSE?Solved[Original post below] A few points (and limited testing) for anyone that gets here being as confused as I was (please correct me if anything is wrong):cat 1 > /sys/module/zswap/parameters/enabled......should work but doesn't on Leap 15.6...works on Tumbleweedzswap.enabled=1in the kernel parameters does workIf it doesn't check the second line returned bydmesg, which shows the kernel parameters. It is possible the changes did not apply.sudo dmesg | grep zswapshould return at least 1 line if it has been enabled correctlyopenSUSE (at least Leap 15.6 & current Tumbleweed) include zswap in the kernel:Usingmodprobeis unnecesary and won't work.Usinglsmodwon't list zswap.There are no extra steps needed for the kernel parameter to work.-Edit: it works. I started the computer again to do more testing and it just worked, without any extra steps. I tried redoing all my steps again to find what the f**k happened. Usingcat 1 > /sys/module/zswap/parameters/enabledmakes it report as enabled ("Y") but it does nothing. Once swap starts to fillhtopreports no compressed memory and so does/sys/kernel/debug/zswap/pool_total_size. Enabling it in the boot parameters however does work. I swear it was not working before. Or maybe I am just stupid and after the first failure I was too quick to assume that failed too.-I find it astonishing that, after hours of research, I have not been able to find a single working source for how to do this or if it is even possible. I have only been able to find documentation for other distros, for using zram (on openSUSE), old questions from people using zswap on openSUSE (without mentioning how they enabled it) and one or two old posts that mentioned enabling it in the GRUB config/kernel parameters should be enough.Setting the kernel boot parameters for zswap did nothing. Using/sys/module/zswap/parameters/enableddid not work either. After some investigation I tried to load the module manually with modprobe. On Leap 15.6 it did nothing (no output and lsmod did not list it afterwards) and on tumbleweed it threw a not found error. Trying modprobe with zram did show the expected behaviour. Does this mean zswap is not even included in openSUSE?I want to enable it for an old laptop with 4GiB of RAM. While using firefox (and accumulating a few tabs) memory starts reaching full use and SWAP begins to fill. It has an old SSD and I want to minimize writes to it (but I still prefer for it to be used if hibernating or if compressed memory is not enough). Do openSUSE developers consider zram should always be used over zswap? Am I misunderstanding something? I'm not new to linux but I only started daily driving it 2 months ago.Thanks in advance.
Are rootless containers recommended in MicroOS? Are rootless containers recommended in MicroOS?u/p0intl3ss•4 days agoAre rootless containers recommended in MicroOS?MicroOSHi,I was wondering if there is a recommended way to run containers on MicroOS.I am currently in the process of setting up a mini server in a remote location. MicroOS seemed interesting for this setup because it should require low maintenance and be robust due to the automatic immutable updates. My goal is to run a few containers on it (Webservers, MQTT, ...).  So I read some blog posts about Podman/Quadlets, and it seemed to be a good fit.At first I was going for a rootless setup because it seems ideal from a security perspective, and none of my containers needs root. So I created a user and installed some containers. Quickly I noticed that the default partition for/homeis only 20GB and most space is allocated for/var(i chose Container Host during installation).After researching a bit, I came across apostin this sub where the comments make it seem that I was doing it wrong and that MicroOS is only designed for running containers as root. I am not a container expert, so I am not sure if there are really no significant security benefits to running rootless in this setup.I looked at the docs but could not find any guide on what the officially recommended way of running containers on MicroOS is. Also, I don't really want to go to Kubernetes, as I see no real benefit for my single-node deployment, just additional complexity.How should I set up containers on my server? Should I switch to a rootful Podman/Quadlets deployment? I also appreciate any links to docs or blog posts covering this topic.Thank you :)Sorry for the beginner question. I am just getting started with MicroOS.
obviously obviouslyu/cookiesstrawberri04•2 days agoobviously
KDE Plasma rice KDE Plasma riceu/sid-kailasa•17 days agoKDE Plasma rice
KDE crashed until system froze up. KDE crashed until system froze up.u/Irverter•4 days agoKDE crashed until system froze up.Tech supportHi, just had an odd crash that ended with the whole system freezing up. Everything seems to be working fine a force rebooting, but would like help in figuring what happened if possible.I was playing Twilight Princess in Dolphin (been playing over a month without any issue so I doubt that's the cause) and when the crash happened I was looking through a guide in my phone.I noticed the audio started looping in a glitchy way (audio plays, last second loops couple times, audio plays, last second loops couple times, repeat) so I tried to save in-game to avoid losing progress, but controller wasn't responding. Game still was playing but as I was in the pause menu, I'm not unsure if the video was looping along the audio or just freezing and skipping frames.Tried to alt-tab, ctrl-alt-f1 to f7, change workspace, open app launcher, but keyboard wasn't working. Mouse did move the cursor, but couldn't do anything with it as I was playing fullscreen.Thinking that maybe the usb hub failed and was bugging the system I tried reconnecting the controller, mouse and keyboard, but none responded. Mouse stopped moving the cursor and the bloqnum led won't turn on. Touchscreen still responded.Then dolphin just froze up, no audio and a still image. Force rebooted.Checking journalctl, it seems there was a network issue sevral minutes before the crash, then programs started crashing, plasma crashed, drkonqi crashed and everything kept crashing until nothing worked.Here's the log between starting dolphin and login after force reboot:https://pastebin.com/q2Bn4GqVAs reference points:20:26 audio started glitching.20:27 system froze20:28 force rebootSystem info:Operating System: openSUSE Tumbleweed-Slowroll 20260101 KDE Plasma Version: 6.5.4 KDE Frameworks Version: 6.21.0 Qt Version: 6.10.1 Kernel Version: 6.18.0-1.0.2.sr20251204-default (64-bit) Graphics Platform: X11 Processors: 16 × AMD Ryzen 7 8840U w/ Radeon 780M Graphics Memory: 32 GiB of RAM (27.2 GiB usable) Graphics Processor: AMD Radeon 780M Graphics Manufacturer: Micro Computer (HK) Tech Limited Product Name: V3
any ETA of when COSMIC will be in the openSUSE installer for be choosen ? any ETA of when COSMIC will be in the openSUSE installer for be choosen ?u/prueba_hola•7 days agoany ETA of when COSMIC will be in the openSUSE installer for be choosen ?Tech question
Latest Tumbleweed update triggered boot into Secure Boot Shim MOK Manager even though Secure Boot is disabled in my UEFI - expected, unexpected, or not related to update? Latest Tumbleweed update triggered boot into Secure Boot Shim MOK Manager even though Secure Boot is disabled in my UEFI - expected, unexpected, or not related to update?u/rowschank•8 days agoLatest Tumbleweed update triggered boot into Secure Boot Shim MOK Manager even though Secure Boot is disabled in my UEFI - expected, unexpected, or not related to update?New versionAfter the dist upgrade today, my next boot took me into the MOK management screen. I did nothing, it failed, and booted into what looked like a normal session. I had to manually reorder my opensuse to be above opensuse-secureboot to make sure my normal boot behaviour was restored.Is this a part of the recent update or unrelated to it?
Differences with packman packages Differences with packman packagesu/Alvaroms25•8 days agoDifferences with packman packagesHello! I noticed that when i do "opi codecs" to install codecs, a lot of packages try to change vendor to Packman, i specially noticed Discord and Mesa(Not sure about that one), so what's the difference?
How do I set how much space snapshots are allowed to use? How do I set how much space snapshots are allowed to use?u/nozendk•9 days agoHow do I set how much space snapshots are allowed to use?Tech questionBefore making the jump to openSuse I have played around with it in a KVM virtual machine. One thing I don't understand is that after a while it always runs out of disk space. I can remove snapshots manually to reclaim space, but it would be smart if I didn't have to. Will I have the same problem when I install on the real hardware with a much larger disk?
Mozilla launches official Firefox RPM for Linux Mozilla launches official Firefox RPM for Linuxu/jungfred•24 days agoMozilla launches official Firefox RPM for LinuxNewshttps://blog.nightly.mozilla.org/2026/01/19/introducing-mozillas-firefox-nightly-rpm-package-for-rpm-based-linux-distributions/
I fell in love with openSUSE; I came from Parrot OS. I fell in love with openSUSE; I came from Parrot OS.u/NenyUX•18 days agoI fell in love with openSUSE; I came from Parrot OS.
Is openSUSE/SUSE a good choice for a foss EU OS? Better than Fedora? Why-who not? Is openSUSE/SUSE a good choice for a foss EU OS? Better than Fedora? Why-who not?u/Schroinx•4 days agoIs openSUSE/SUSE a good choice for a foss EU OS? Better than Fedora? Why-who not?EditorialThe idea for an EU OS is here.https://eu-os.eu/While I fully support the idea, his ignorance of IBMs integration of Red Hat into IBM. IBM is not a small US tech company, but 300.000 employess & and net worth of $270bn, makes it into one of the US tech monopolies we want to be rid of. FOSS or not, matters little, when IBM foots the bill for Fedora. This is what it is for average users, but for EU digital sovereignty, this only recreates a new dependency, as the sysadmins replace MS Server with IBM Linux in the server rooms in EUrope.We have seen how much EU privacy is worth in US clouds, so there is little reason to expect differently from an OS. Can they turn off our systems remotely or other nefarious deed, like give a backdoor to the US? With the current gov that is a reality we have to consider in the risk assessments & audits.We need at least a neutral distro, like Debian, or a EUropean flavour like openSUSE. If we choses a US disto, FOSS or not, we make us dependent on their good wiil, and also signals that they should buy consultancy & licenses from IBM, not EUropean licenses or consultancy.Ideally, it would run on everything from laptops to servers and as MS Server once did, eg as edge server for an office of 100-200 users. Its certified for SAP R3 I believe, so should be stable enough for datacenters.The guy behind the initiative wants a bootable container images and some other features, which he then postulates only can be gotten in Fedora. I'd say, if we want a truly EU OS, then it should be EU or international at least, and since its FOSS, we copy paste the features we need from other distros, as legal and practical control with the fundation/being outside others control like US, China, Russia etc, is key.And while I looked into it, it seems as open/SUSE is better than most ppl knows, and does not get all the credit it deserves for its qualities.What do you think?
What made you love openSUSE? What made you love openSUSE?u/sid-kailasa•5 days agoWhat made you love openSUSE?
Finally… Finally…u/User_reddit69•7 days agoFinally…
Would you recommend OpenSUSE for a beginner-intermediate? Would you recommend OpenSUSE for a beginner-intermediate?u/Disastrous_Snow_7706•3 days agoWould you recommend OpenSUSE for a beginner-intermediate?Tech questionI've been using Linux for like 3 4 months now. I got tired of Plasma and Cinnamon and I want GNOME because it looks amazing and, for me at least, I consider it being more fluid. I have three options now. Pop_OS! (which I already used in the past before going to Mint), Fedora Workstation and OpenSUSE. I want my system to be solid, but very beautiful and private (I'm deep into the privacy rabbit hole, but Tails OS is just not for me). I also want to stop distro hopping so I need a distro that will be there for years with as less as possible issues. Would you recommend me this distro?
Dev docs for zypper Dev docs for zypperu/anonymous_8181•9 days agoDev docs for zypperTech questionHello, I've been using tumbleweed for quite some time and I'm very happy with the stability it provides. I want to contribute to zypper and help in bug fixes. Currently I'm trying to understand the whole codebase. I wanted to know if there are any dev docs for zypper. It would help me a lot!Also if anyone has experience contributing to zypper, it would be nice to give a rough overview on how ya'll started and your experience for the same. It would be beneficial to me and also for people in the future.
OpenSUSE Tumbleweed - is it really that good? OpenSUSE Tumbleweed - is it really that good?u/Major303•15 days agoOpenSUSE Tumbleweed - is it really that good?In theory OpenSUSE Tumbleweed looks like one of the best Linux distributions out there, and I wanted to ask if there is really no catch.access to newest software, but all updates are thoroughly tested (so better than Ubuntu and most Ubuntu based distributions, and less error prone than Fedora or Arch)btrfs out of the box, so it's easy to recover from errors, without having to rely on atomic systems (which have certain drawbacks)has actual control panel with user interface (yast), most distributions have very limited settingshas multiple DE options, so you are not tied to single one (could have more, but KDE and GNOME should satisfy 99% of users)Unless you want something extremely user friendly (like Ubuntu), it looks like OpenSUSE Tumbleweed has everything you would ever want.There seems to be one catch though - there are no media codecs included, I'm currently trying to figure out how to install them, but once you know how to deal with it, it's honestly a non issue. At least it connects to the internet out of the box.
Windows game open only if i set setenforce to 0. Am i doing something wrong or this is the only way? Windows game open only if i set setenforce to 0. Am i doing something wrong or this is the only way?u/Version_Internal•9 days agoWindows game open only if i set setenforce to 0. Am i doing something wrong or this is the only way?Tech supportI am using bottles to run windows games on my laptop but the games launch only if i change the setenforce value. It is not the case with my previous OSes (fedora, debian, cachyos, manjaro).
https://software.opensuse.org has been down two times in the past two weeks https://software.opensuse.org has been down two times in the past two weeksu/nadervx•10 days agohttps://software.opensuse.org has been down two times in the past two weeksI’m not sure why, but on the status page, the last incident update was back in December. They never even mentioned what happened during the last two outages, and the service is still down now.
[Tumbleweed] A problem: ROCCAT Kone Pro's debounce time and clicks that don't register (please read fully) [Tumbleweed] A problem: ROCCAT Kone Pro's debounce time and clicks that don't register (please read fully)u/Typical_Ad_9293•15 days ago[Tumbleweed] A problem: ROCCAT Kone Pro's debounce time and clicks that don't register (please read fully)Tech supportI have a problem: I am a Minecraft PvP player and I got a Roccat Kone Pro mouse, a mouse that can be used to drag click or buttefly, fast clicking techniques which are important in Minecraft PvPI can set the debounce time to 0ms in ROCCAT Swarm on Windows (I dualboot) and drag clicking and butterfly works, but on Linux, it's different.Debounce time is useful when you want to prevent double clicks (mouses can sometimes register clicks twice instead of once which can be undesired), but in Minecraft PvP they don't do harm and can be useful, since buttefly involves double clicking on purpose, and drag click isn't possible to do properly when the mouse doesn't register clicks within 10ms of eachother.With a ROCCAT mouse, the settings are stored in onboard profiles, switchable at any time. In theory, the debounce time setting should work, but it seems that the mouse doesn't register clicks in quick succession.On Windows, my friend was able to drag click around 30 CPS (Clicks per Second) while on Linux very little clicks were registering, and my friend said that even with a 10ms debounce time he should be able to do at least 20 CPS.My theory, is that my OS might be imposing its own debounce time or such, but that theory doesn't really make sense. Please help me resolve this issue.
Fedora Linux vs OpenSUSE Tumbleweed - SPEED TEST Fedora Linux vs OpenSUSE Tumbleweed - SPEED TESTu/AscadianScrib•12 days agoFedora Linux vs OpenSUSE Tumbleweed - SPEED TEST
OpenSUSE Tumbleweed Install Guide But For Gaming! OpenSUSE Tumbleweed Install Guide But For Gaming!u/LowIllustrator2501•20 days agoOpenSUSE Tumbleweed Install Guide But For Gaming!
Couple of questions before I switch to openSUSE Couple of questions before I switch to openSUSE[deleted]•4 days agoCouple of questions before I switch to openSUSECommunityHey guys,I'm currently using Fedora KDE but I want to switch for several reasons. I need a distro that is secure, reliable, up to date and has excellent KDE Plasma support. I've seen plenty of people suggestion openSUSE Tumbleweed and Kalpa so here I am. I do have some questions so please bare with me:Kalpa would be perfect for me for the added reliability but I do understand that it is in Alpha state and only one dev working on it - is this true? Aeon looks great but GNOME is unusable for my needs (multi-monitor setup, plenty of KDE apps, multiple ex windows users and some system tray apps);I tend to avoid 3rd party repos for security reasons so I guess I need to install apps that require codecs from Flathub... will I have proper hardware acceleration on my full AMD laptop? Or do I need to install mesa from Packman?how ofter do you update? Do you use Discover or zypper-dup?do you clean up snapshots manually and do they pile up taking space?do you use systemd-boot or grub-bls? I prefer systemd-boot but do snapshots work with it?is Yast removed from the patterns now that it is deprecated?Will plasma-login replace sddm soon?do you disable root account and enable sudo like others distros do? And why?any other tips for a new (but somewhat experienced) user coming to openSUSE?Thank you.
Projekt ISO-Wither  A lightweight, safety-focused ISO writer built with C++/Qt6 (for openSUSE & KDE) Projekt ISO-Wither  A lightweight, safety-focused ISO writer built with C++/Qt6 (for openSUSE & KDE)u/MainPowerful5653•7 days agoProjekt ISO-Wither  A lightweight, safety-focused ISO writer built with C++/Qt6 (for openSUSE & KDE)
Upgrading OpenSUSE Leap 16.0 from KDE 6.4.2 to 6.5.x Upgrading OpenSUSE Leap 16.0 from KDE 6.4.2 to 6.5.xu/Miserable-School-665•15 days agoUpgrading OpenSUSE Leap 16.0 from KDE 6.4.2 to 6.5.xTech supportHi, linux newbie here.I got a 2 in 1 laptop and I often use it on tablet mode. But on KDE 6.4, its a known bug to long press touch often doesn't bring up context menu, which is a huge gravestone for only touch usage. It got fixed on kde 6.5, but Leap 16 seem to wont gonna change KDE version. I saw its recommended to update form kde repos, but I'm afraid it break the system.I'm not into Tumbleweed, maybe slowroll but I don't want to lose any data/customization since I did a lot of critical things for my use case that I don't even remember.What do you suggest in that case? Should I take a snapshot and try to update? What could be the problem in worst case?Can I use zypper dup to switch to slowroll without any data loss?
Is opensuse download iso page down? Is opensuse download iso page down?u/sondqq•16 days agoIs opensuse download iso page down?update: hmm, i't ok now
PSA: Using repos from CDN.opensuse.org PSA: Using repos from CDN.opensuse.orgu/martinjh99•16 days agoPSA: Using repos from CDN.opensuse.orgThere is a problem downloading from OBS at the moment -cdn.opensuse.orgisn't working at the moment.status.opensuse.orgshows software system is down.
RFC: openSUSE Governance Proposal RFC: openSUSE Governance Proposalu/jeff-mahoney•15 days agoRFC: openSUSE Governance ProposalHi everyone -Over the last few years - and most recently at the last two openSUSE Conferences - I’ve spoken publicly about the need for clearer, more predictable governance within the project. I committed at those events to coming back with a concrete proposal as a starting point for discussion. This message is to share that draft.Linked below is a governance proposal for the project, intended explicitly as a starting point for community discussion. It does not take effect on its own, it does not prescribe technical outcomes, and it does not change the existing openSUSE Board or its charter. Its purpose is to provide a shared baseline for discussing how we make decisions, resolve deadlocks, and coordinate across a project that has grown significantly in scope and complexity.The proposal focuses on a small number of structural changes:Clarifying roles and responsibilities that are today handled informallyIntroducing a Technical Steering Committee to provide technical direction and arbitration when consensus failsIntroducing a Community & Marketing Committee focused on community growth, communication spaces, and outreachPreserving maintainer autonomy, open participation, and community elections throughoutIt's meant to be a way to move from governance by volume or persistence toward governance by legitimacy, transparency, and process - so that disagreements can be resolved fairly and the project can keep moving forward. Introducing structure and predictability means it's easier for newcomers to the project to participate without needing to understand decades of accumulated history. It potentially could provide a clearer roadmap for developers to find a place to contribute.I’m sharing this now to begin an open discussion. Feedback, criticism, and alternative ideas are welcome. I ask only that discussion focus on the structure and intent of the proposal itself, rather than assuming outcomes that are explicitly left to future decision-making.After an initial discussion period, the intent would be to incorporate feedback, revise the draft, and only then consider next steps through the Board and the community.Thanks for taking the time to read and engage. I look forward to the discussion.This document is available at:https://gitlab.com/jeffmahoney/opensuse-docs/-/blob/main/governance-draft.mdPlease feel free to add comments or requests to that project or in response to the post onproject@lists.opensuse.org:https://lists.opensuse.org/archives/list/project@lists.opensuse.org/thread/YKI5QVMT66WMZLOPTCQOEQZPTEWPDIBV/Thanks,-JeffopenSUSE Board MemberVP Linux Systems, SUSE
Neovim woes - parsing error Neovim woes - parsing erroru/ccjr01•18 days agoNeovim woes - parsing errorHello geckos- I'm here to raise my displeasure with a certain bug that's been paining me for a while now with my SUSE installation. Since I've installed neovim, I've been receiving an error on startup that doesn't seem to want to be fixed. It seems to be related to a lua parser issue.I can find very little online that is helpful to me in actuallysolvingthe issue.I've tried all kinds of things - clearing my nvim cache, using a clean (empty) neovim configuration file, and adding a zypper lock to install only base neovim without tree-sitter packages, but it seems to insist on looking for this broken (or missing) lua parser- that's already installed. At least that's what seems immediately logical to me.I surely can't be the only one receiving this neovim error, right? I've tested it on multiple machines and with a clean configuration, so I'm confused as to why this bug would slip through on such a popular application.Thanks for reading.
Tumbleweed – Review of the week 2026/6 Tumbleweed – Review of the week 2026/6u/bmwiedemann•4 days agoTumbleweed – Review of the week 2026/6New versionhttps://dominique.leuenberger.net/blog/2026/02/tumbleweed-review-of-the-week-2026-6/
Install help Install helpu/EpicuriousChipmunk•27 days agoInstall helpHi, i need help installing tumbleweed on my laptop with Intel plus rtx4060 graphics. I can only install with nomodeset. But I am not able to delete this nomodeset after installing the Nvidia drivers. I tried in grub.cfg and in yast boot loader entry. But nothing worked. It worked when I changed the entry in boot option when restarting (e). But when I am on desktop it crashes when I try to open the settings. I wanted tw+xfce. I now changed back to manjaro becausei need a working system. Maybe someone can help me. I tried many other things Google and gemini suggested but nothing worked. Thank you in advance.
[XFCE][XFWM] openSUSE Leap 16 [XFCE][XFWM] openSUSE Leap 16u/vloshof28•1 mo. ago[XFCE][XFWM] openSUSE Leap 16ScreenShot
Leap 16 brakes so much Leap 16 brakes so muchu/apingaut•1 mo. agoLeap 16 brakes so muchIs anyone else in the same predicament? Leap 16 brakes so much: zfs, RDP (xfreerdp), yast (yes I'm supposed to be better then that, but I'm not) and prolly more stuff then that. 20 years using openSUSE and I think I'm going cold turkey to something different. I most of these changes, I likely can manage with but I need my zfs pool.
Tumbleweed installer did in one click what I've been told in Linux is basically impossible and unnecessary Tumbleweed installer did in one click what I've been told in Linux is basically impossible and unnecessaryu/rowschank•1 mo. agoTumbleweed installer did in one click what I've been told in Linux is basically impossible and unnecessarySolvedMy PC hibernates again for the first time after leaving Windows. It was basically one click in the drive setup section of the installer. No other Linux OS I've tried does anything close to this, and in most other popular OSes it's basically impossible to set it up, to the extent that I had given up on it.Now, I also enjoy the existence of YaST, which unfortunately seems to be going away just as I install Linux and Tumbleweed. I've already used it to open a Firewall port for a phone-based card reader, and also tweak a couple of boot loader options. I hope there will be other GUI tools to replace these, as I really enjoy the experience of using GUI to get my things done and not having to type commands into the terminal I don't quite understand. The software installer seems to have been rebranded as Myrlyn, but there are two of them for some reason.
How to troubleshoot? How to troubleshoot?u/Max_318•14 hr. agoHow to troubleshoot?Tech supportI recently installed for the first time Slowroll and I’ve been having some troubles with it. My laptop freezes (sometimes after 5 minutes and sometimes after 1 hour) and the only way to fix it is with a hard reboot.I honestly don’t know where to start to fix it, any tips? I would prefer avoiding going back to Debian.
Myrlyn is fantastic and makes Tumbleweed extremely newbie-friendly Myrlyn is fantastic and makes Tumbleweed extremely newbie-friendlyu/rowschank•21 days agoMyrlyn is fantastic and makes Tumbleweed extremely newbie-friendlyNew stuffMyrlyn (which reached 1.0 today!) enables using many zypper functions completely on a graphical user interface using mouse clicks, which is extremely useful to people who have experience of using computers and even tinkering with power-user settings before, but are scared of the terminal and want something like a system settings or a control panel. I just wanted to appreciate the developers for their work for three features that I use:It nables adding repositories and adding new GPG keys in a simple way, something which could look terrifying to a newbie. Consider: Typing a wget command for a GPG key, addrepo to add a repository, and installing the software (e.g. Collabora): something that someone brand new to a Linux OS will not enjoy, or may even accidentally copy paste something wrong. On Myrlyn I can add the repo through configure repositories (including things like packman), then it requests an auto-restart to refresh it and prompts accepting GPG keys, and I can now install packages from this repository.Dependency management in installation and uninstallation is also very easy. Installation is automatic, uninstall is possible by enabling cleanup for the particular run.It allows for a full system upgrade ("zypper dup") including conflict resolution!For most people, they won't need to use zypper on the terminal as much or at all with Myrlyn, which is great for users who are not comfortable with it.A few of things that I think are missing / buggy / I don't understand:ThemeWill Myrlyn ever be able to use the user theme like YaST does, while still having su permissions?Automatic UpdatesIs it possible that Myrlyn gives automatic update notifications (perhaps working alongside KDE discover) about updates, or allows KDE discover to call the Myrlyn conflict resolution / GPG Key addition process if need be, instead of silently failing? I don't know how feasible this is. Right now I see Tumbleweed update on KDE Discover and then open Myrlyn to do the update.Repo Link ParsingThere are some repo links that work better in zypper (terminal) than on Myrlyn. For example, Brave Browser gives this link:https://brave-browser-rpm-release.s3.brave.com/brave-browser.repoNow if I add this link to Myrlyn, it will say it's a wrong repo, and fail to load.However, sudo zypper addrepo automatically opens this link and finds the baseurl inside:https://brave-browser-rpm-release.s3.brave.com/$basearchwith other links to GPG key, etc.Is it planned to include this kind of parsing in Myrlyn, or is there a technical reason this isn't possible?Again, fantastic job, you can be proud of yourselves, and thanks for making Tumbleweed easy to use :-)
SUSE for DevOps? SUSE for DevOps?u/Zeonist-•1 mo. agoSUSE for DevOps?Hi, I wanna get into devops and was wondering if SUSE would be good choice, I already know a good bit of it and have been using it for around 2 years but I feel like choosing something more popular might be a better choice
some widgets some widgetsu/darknetmatrix•1 day agosome widgets
lenovo privacy guard (T14 gen2 - AMD) lenovo privacy guard (T14 gen2 - AMD)u/Suvvri•1 day agolenovo privacy guard (T14 gen2 - AMD)How to… !Hello fellow Chameleonians,yesterday I decided to come back to OpenSuse and install it on my lenovo laptop. The only thing I am missing is the "privacy guard" option that for some reason does not work, while it worked on Mint and Fedora OOB. What it does it pretty much just limiting the viewing angles when pressing Fn+D which does nothing here.Any idea if there's a package I am missing or maybe some setting?I am on TW.Thanks in advance!
openSUSE Myrlyn Package Manager Reaches Version 1.0 openSUSE Myrlyn Package Manager Reaches Version 1.0u/LowIllustrator2501•21 days agoopenSUSE Myrlyn Package Manager Reaches Version 1.0Newshttps://linuxiac.com/opensuse-myrlyn-package-manager-reaches-version-1-0/
openSUSE Tumbleweed Appreciation Post openSUSE Tumbleweed Appreciation Postu/Accomplished_Gur9454•1 mo. agoopenSUSE Tumbleweed Appreciation PostI had put a post on here awhile ago (>= 1 year) trying to end my distrohopping by giving openSUSE TW a shot -- tried it for a bit, went back to Ubuntu for reasons I cannot remember (probably a self-perceived knowledge gap), and for the past week or so I am back, more informed about openSUSE than the last time.The experience so far has been amazing.  The latest version of KDE Plasma feels so much better than when I tried it last -- knowing more about customising it helps a lot.  YaST and Zypper and OPI feel very intuitive and it took me very little time to get things set up (again, probably a self-perceived knowledge gap last time).Also the community has been so helpful and kind to help me when needed, including all the tips people gave me last time I posted!Thanks for the fantastic experience so far!  I can see openSUSE TW seriously being the end to my distrohopping that I have not been able to stop since switching about 2.5 years ago.
still running great still running greatu/darknetmatrix•13 days agostill running great
[Tumbleweed] Motherboard audio doesn't work, but DisplayPort audio does [Tumbleweed] Motherboard audio doesn't work, but DisplayPort audio doesu/Typical_Ad_9293•1 mo. ago[Tumbleweed] Motherboard audio doesn't work, but DisplayPort audio doesSolvedTHIS IS SOLVED, NOT AN ISSUE WITH HARDWARE OR SOFTWARE, THE MIC MUTE BUTTON WAS ONJUST A CLASSIC PEBCAKFor me I usually use the jack on my monitor and use the GPU's audio controller as the output, but now I've got a headset, and the microphone on it doesn't work if I plug the cable into the monitor's jack, only output. I used to have a separate mic that kinda broke, and when I used separate headphones and mic, headphones in the monitor jack and mic in the front mic jack it worked. Now with the headset, I assume I have to use the splitter cable (splits into mic and output), but with or without the splitter, neither the mic or the output works. This has been a problem with other headphones, plugging them into the front output or the Line Out on the back doesn't work. My headset is Razer BlackShark V2 X. In KDE, my audio "profiles" are "Digital Stereo (IEC958) Output" and "Digital Stereo (IEC958) Output + Analog Stereo Input". My motherboard is GIGABYTE B760 DS3H AX. Maybe something with the drivers?EDIT: Hey, Robert and others that might be reading this. I might be stupid. See, my headset has a mic mute button, and it was on, that's why the mic wasn't working, it's because of the mic mute button, now I unmuted it and it works! Not a software issue, nor a hardware issue, it's an issue with the wearer of the headset. If you headset has a mic mute button and the mix is not working, the issue might be just that it is muted!
Swapped to Tumbleweed, sound crackly on high CPU utilisation Swapped to Tumbleweed, sound crackly on high CPU utilisationu/CassadeeBTW•1 mo. agoSwapped to Tumbleweed, sound crackly on high CPU utilisationTech supportHi there,Early last week I swapped to Tumbleweed from Bazzite, as I wanted a mutable system, and when experiencing high CPU loads, my sound, whether a game, or youtube video in the background, incorporates a lot of crackling in it.Forinxi -AAudio:Device-1: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD/ATI] Navi 21/23 HDMI/DP Audiodriver: snd_hda_intelDevice-2: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Starship/Matisse HD Audiodriver: snd_hda_intelDevice-3: Plantronics GameCom 777 5.1 Headsetdriver: plantronics,snd-usb-audio,usbhid type: USBDevice-4: C-Media Blue Snowball driver: hid-generic,snd-usb-audio,usbhid type: USBDevice-5: Sony DualSense wireless controller (PS5)driver: playstation,snd-usb-audio,usbhid type: USBAPI: ALSA v: k6.18.2-1-default status: kernel-apiServer-1: PipeWire v: 1.5.84 status: activeThe device I use for audio is the "Plantronics GameCom 777 5.1 Headset" over USB, with some cheap Sony earbuds (don't want to use expensive stuff because of cats!!!)I do not have any custom configs for pulseaudio/pulsewire/wireplumber/alsa, as I don't know what/where to change.An example of a 'high' CPU activity causing the crackling sound would betar --use-compress-program "zstd -v --threads=0 -1 --memory=2000MB" --create --file /mnt/8de817fb-db47-482a-a745-6b9fd0c0c833/3TB_HDD.tar.zst /run/media/freyja/c394f747-ef02-479b-87fa-b822e5b9f380/, and this was not an issue under Bazzite. Additionally, simply copying files to a spinner (mounted on fstab with force-compress=zstd:9) is also enough to cause some crackling.I realise I may not have the most information to give, but I am willing to give more.Other potentially useful information is, KDE Plasma 6.5.4 Wayland session andKernel: Linux 6.18.2-1-defaultCPU: AMD Ryzen 7 5700X3D (16) @ 4.15 GHzGPU: AMD Radeon RX 6900 XTRAM: 64GB 3666MHz CL16Motherboard: X570 AORUS MASTER (-CF) with firmware version F38.
fingerprint login message (KDE), when no fingerprint reader fingerprint login message (KDE), when no fingerprint readeru/lbl_ye•1 mo. agofingerprint login message (KDE), when no fingerprint readerTech questionhi,when I login (KDE) I notice a single line small message that says I can login with fingerprintmy laptop probably has no fingerprint reader (I'm not 100% sure 😂) and when I'm in the Users settings screen there is no option to set a fingerprintso I wonder if this is a typical message always displayed regardless of the hardwarecan you verify ?
Trying out distros Trying out distrosu/More-Cut8026•4 days agoTrying out distrosCommunityHi friends, i’m currently using void and i actually love it, but i’m very curious about other distros too, i came upon OpenSUSE as a distro i wanted to try, can you guys explain to me maybe what’s good about it? the most common problems and maybe something about the package manager?
No audio after fresh installation. No audio after fresh installation.u/Aspromayros•5 days agoNo audio after fresh installation.Tech supportHello people, I installed opensuse Tumbleweed and audio from speakers doesn't work. My speakers connect with a 3.5 jack to the back of my mobo. If I use a converter from 3.5 to USB c it works. I use gnome but I installed KDE Plasma too and it worked, also I tried endeavourOS live USB and it work and Aeon Desktop which it didn't worked. So my assumption is that the problem is with the gnome 49.3 update. Any help would be appreciated. Thanks in advance.
Request on how to remove Codecs installed by OPI Request on how to remove Codecs installed by OPIu/Repave2348•7 days agoRequest on how to remove Codecs installed by OPITech questionTumbleweed user here. I followed the guide in the wiki,hereto install codecs via OPI. However, it has become apparent that I don't need these codecs, specifically the added complexity of adding the packman repository.There is a callout box in the wiki that advises that;Tumbleweed users who only occasionally use codecs (for example through a web browser or a handful of dedicated applications such as VLC or OBS Studio) might find it convenient to avoid the addition of external repositories by using a version of these applications shipping with their own codecs. On Tumbleweed the advantage of this approach is more salient as codecs will be kept separate from system libraries, securing extra stability for the user.I now realise that instead for installing opi codecs, I could have simply installed vlc as a flatpack.My question is, how do I go about undoing the opi codecs install, including removing packman as a repository? The wiki doesn't seem to provide guidance but I am happy to be corrected.Update (in case someone comes across this query in the future);I removed the packman and packman essentials repository in myrlyn.I ransudo zypper ref && sudo zypper dup --allow-vendor-changeThis gave me the following summary51 packages to downgrade, 1 to remove, 51  to change vendor.I proceeded with the upgrade and everything looks to be functioning as expected.
Either you love OpenSUSE or you cannot boot it. Either you love OpenSUSE or you cannot boot it.u/sorewolf•14 days agoEither you love OpenSUSE or you cannot boot it.
SUSE VP Jeff Mahoney Publishes Draft Governance Proposal for openSUSE SUSE VP Jeff Mahoney Publishes Draft Governance Proposal for openSUSEu/LowIllustrator2501•14 days agoSUSE VP Jeff Mahoney Publishes Draft Governance Proposal for openSUSEhttps://linuxiac.com/suse-vp-jeff-mahoney-publishes-draft-governance-proposal-for-opensuse/
Software differentiation Software differentiationu/Mysterio6911•2 days agoSoftware differentiationI have been using linux from the past 5 years, first 2 years with linux mint, and then found that rolling was more like my thing, so migrated to opensuse tumbleweed. While installing a new DE on any linux distro, it also installs a bunch of out-of-the-box apps tailored for that DE. But if you already have another DE installed, the pacakges collide and have cross-appeareances such as KDE software appearing in GNOME. Is there anyway to prevent this cross-appeareances of applications?
Already installed grub2-compat-ia32, but Steam says "nothing provides 'gtk2-engine-oxygen-32bit' needed by the to be installed steam-1.0.0.85-lp160.2.1.x86_64" Already installed grub2-compat-ia32, but Steam says "nothing provides 'gtk2-engine-oxygen-32bit' needed by the to be installed steam-1.0.0.85-lp160.2.1.x86_64"u/Woobeewoop•1 mo. agoAlready installed grub2-compat-ia32, but Steam says "nothing provides 'gtk2-engine-oxygen-32bit' needed by the to be installed steam-1.0.0.85-lp160.2.1.x86_64"Tech supportI am new to linux and would appreciate any help. I got no error when I installed grub2-compat-ia32, but I keep getting the error message when trying to install Steam.I tried a Flatpak before but I could not get desktop icons to work and it was extremely stressful attempting to get it to work.Im not sure if this is relevant, but I get this error messagewhen trying to install libgtk:No provider of 'libgtk2-1-0-32bit' found.
Logitech M720 mouse does not work (works OK in Windows on same PC) Logitech M720 mouse does not work (works OK in Windows on same PC)u/ezhan•1 mo. agoLogitech M720 mouse does not work (works OK in Windows on same PC)Tech supportPlugging in the Unifying adapter brings a popup in Plasma.It is listed in USB devices3. But nothing in Solaar appIn Windows it works straight away.What should I do?Tnx.
What am I doing wrong What am I doing wrongu/Ateir_•6 days agoWhat am I doing wrongTech supportSo, I recently had an oopsie with Mint, and thus decided to hop. I tried Fedora, which had a great installation experience, but quite a few quirks after the installation.So after reading several posts and comments from people talking up openSUSE, I thought I'd give it a go. 6 hours and 4 installation attempts later, I am honestly about to just return to Mint.I have some points on the installation process, but they aren't my main issue.When booting in to the DE, my video output is terrible, which is normal, as I have one 4K and one 1080 display. So I tried to change the display settings. However, this is the worst experience I've had on Linux to date. Half the time I do a small tweak and hit apply, everything goes crazy. Half a monitor goes black, or my mouse is showing on one monitor, while highlighting something on another monitor. As well as the Display Options app itself breaks and becomes unresponsive.And there appears to be no way to scale the GUI?First thought was to get the Nvidia drivers, which resulted in only 1 monitor working in a 720p format...Then I read that Ventoy isn't supported, so I went through the process of setting up a fresh flashdrive, and tried again. This has not resolved anything eitherDrives I've been using have been "cleaned" before the installationsAm I doing something crazy wrong? Is there hardware issues?Any pointers greatly appreciated, and if more info is needed, request and I shall provide in the morning(Written late at night, hastily in anger on my phone, so please be kind to any spelling mistakes :P)Edit: (Resolved)# zypper install-new-recommendsfromhttps://en.opensuse.org/SDB:NVIDIA_driversinstalls an older version of drivers "250" I think it was, and had to be updated again through zypper, as the update through Discovery refused to work.And scaling has been resolved by using KDE(Wayland) instead of X11.
What a great distro What a great distrou/whellbhoi•17 days agoWhat a great distroI've been using linux desktop 19 years and have used the majority of distros even opensuse in that time - im back! Hopefully it serves me well and so far no issues with updates im running tumbleweed which is probably the most stable distro available
Tumbleweed – Review of the week 2026/2 Tumbleweed – Review of the week 2026/2u/bmwiedemann•1 mo. agoTumbleweed – Review of the week 2026/2New versionhttps://dominique.leuenberger.net/blog/2026/01/tumbleweed-review-of-the-week-2026-2/
Power button no longer suspends the PC (tumbleweed) after enabling secure boot . Power button no longer suspends the PC (tumbleweed) after enabling secure boot .u/korakios•1 mo. agoPower button no longer suspends the PC (tumbleweed) after enabling secure boot .I dual boot with windows and had to enable secure boot (after installation)  . I noticed that sleep action on menu was disabled , so I run  'systemctl suspend' thru terminal , it worked and strangely the suspend action was restored on kde . But when pressing the power button , it doesn't work.I set on preferences the action to show logout screen and that works , but when switching the action to suspend it doesn't do anything .Some help ?
LEAP 16 INSTALL WITH  YAST INSTALLER? LEAP 16 INSTALL WITH  YAST INSTALLER?u/PotentialStation6224•3 days agoLEAP 16 INSTALL WITH  YAST INSTALLER?Is it possible to install LEAP with Tumbleweed's installer, I can't choose the apps to not install with agama. Or am I missing something?
Tumbleweed no internet, but LAN is working Tumbleweed no internet, but LAN is workingu/sblmbb•7 days agoTumbleweed no internet, but LAN is workingHello, everyoneNot sure when this happen (probably after update), but I'm no longer able to access internet from my tumbleweed laptop.I have access to LAN, I can ping my router and my router "sees" my laptop and gives it an IP address as well. I even have access to shared files on my local serverBut I don't have any connection to internetand can't ping any address outside my LAN.edit: don't know what happened, but I can ping address and websites outside of my LAN now, but my browser still can't connect to internet. Tried discord app in case its my browsers fault , but it can't connect as wellAny ideas?Tried deleting /etc/resolv.conf and rebooting (and netconfig update -f as well)SOLVED: My date and time was wrong for some reason, it was showing september 2025 (never touched it). I corrected it and now I can connect with no problem, thanks everyone
Will openSUSE join to the Open Gaming Collective? Will openSUSE join to the Open Gaming Collective?u/JMarcosHP•15 days agoWill openSUSE join to the Open Gaming Collective?CommunitySome context here:https://universal-blue.discourse.group/t/a-brighter-future-for-bazzite/11575https://opengamingcollective.org/Since the Bazzite folks are promoting this new collective, and many of the gaming focused distros are now part of it...What will be openSUSE's stance on the Open Gaming collective? Tumbleweed is a great system for gaming even with the level of hardening that it ships by default.What can the openSUSE community contribute to the collective?
Any folks migrating from cachyos to tumbleweed, how was your experience? Any folks migrating from cachyos to tumbleweed, how was your experience?u/whatever4123•8 days agoAny folks migrating from cachyos to tumbleweed, how was your experience?Hey guys,I know cachyos advertises a lot of optimizations but sometimes aggressive optimizations is not great for stability. And i think thats where tumbleweed and opensuse in general shines. Because it is careful and only optimizes when it is needed. That is my opinion, of course.But i have been using cachyos for a while but I need stability in the long run. And I don't care about any 5% increase in performance.I am posting here because I want to learn aboutopensuse tumbleweed experience in the long run, like more than 6 months. I have used tumbleweed few times but not that long. I mostly stayed in arch or fedora in some instances in the past. Any thoughts/info would be greatly appreciated.Thanks.
[Tumbleweed] Roccat Ryos MK M-keys suddenly not recognised [Tumbleweed] Roccat Ryos MK M-keys suddenly not recognisedu/rvolland•5 days ago[Tumbleweed] Roccat Ryos MK M-keys suddenly not recognisedTech supportEvening all,I applied the most recent official updates this morning, and after reboot the M- and T-keys on my Ryos MK keyboard no longer function. I have theroccatpackages installed.After looking at /dev/hidraw* I see that no files have a group name ofroccat. All are showingroot. My user is still a member of theroccatgroup.The file 90-roccat-ryosmk.rules is in the correct place in the /usr/lib/udev/rules.d directory and the process /usr/bin/roccateventhandler is running as expected.I have tried runningudevadm control --reload-rulesandudevadm trigger, but nothing changes. If Ichown root:roccat hidraw3, then I can runroccatryosmkconfigand see my keyboard configuration, but the keys themselves still don't seem to respond.If I runroccatryosmkconfigfrom the command line, I get the following output:Error creating proxy: Error receiving data: Connection reset by peer (g-io-error-quark, 44)** (roccatryosmkconfig:10577): WARNING **: 20:26:02.063: Could not get dbus: Did not receive a reply. Possible causes include: the remote application did not send a reply, the message bus security policy blocked the reply, the reply timeout expired, or the network connection was broken.** (roccatryosmkconfig:10577): CRITICAL **: 20:26:08.481: dbus_g_proxy_connect_signal: assertion 'DBUS_IS_G_PROXY (proxy)' failedCan anyone suggest what the problem might be?
Opensuse Tumbleweed Install Opensuse Tumbleweed Installu/loaba•1 mo. agoOpensuse Tumbleweed Install9700kAsus Z3902060 - considering a switch to AMD GPUDual Display setupGot Tumbleweed installed last night, got the Nvidia driver installed (chatgpt has been legit helpful).This is my secondary rig and of I can successfully use Linux daily, I'll move the main box to Tumbleweed as well.I generally use my PC for gaming and media streaming, but if I can get the former dialed in to an acceptable level, I'm prepared to move media consumption back to the TV.So far, Tumbleweed seems okay. KDE Plasma is not unfamiliar. I'm on X11 at the moment (I really don't know what that means), but Wayland is the future, right?This is not my first foray into Linux, but I think it's the future of local, subscription-free/lite, compute, so I'm motivated to get this working.
Does anyone else need to run nvidia-smi every boot for steam games to find their GPU ? Does anyone else need to run nvidia-smi every boot for steam games to find their GPU ?u/KsiaN•1 mo. agoDoes anyone else need to run nvidia-smi every boot for steam games to find their GPU ?Tech questionThis is an odd issue. It started somewhere with the 575.x or 580.x drivers.Basically steam games can't see my dedicated GPU ( i dont have an internal one on the CPU ) unless i run sudo less, not looping, no repeats necessary .. but i have to run nvidia-smi once for my steam games to see my gpu.Otherwise they throw errors likeYou need at least directX 8 / 9 / 10 to run thisPath of Exile flat out fails with a "getAdapter()" errorDriver out of dateWhile i have videos running on my other monitor that clearly play with nvtop confirmed hardware decoding and KDE perfectly getting all refresh rates and everything.Im using Tumbleweed KDE with Wayland and GE-Proton with a RTX 2060. Steam is installed native and not on flatpak. Using the closed source drivers from the official suse repos.It just feels like steam is looking for some kind of modprobe that never happened. Every game is running fine once i do my nvidia-smi duty in the console, but it feels sooo weird. Like why would this happen?
openSUSE Tumbleweed installation error: Could not prepare boot variable: No space left on device openSUSE Tumbleweed installation error: Could not prepare boot variable: No space left on deviceu/Upset_Advance_4364•3 days agoopenSUSE Tumbleweed installation error: Could not prepare boot variable: No space left on deviceTech supportHi all. I'm trying to install openSUSE Tumbleweed. The installer is giving me the following error:Error: Cannot install bootloader: Command `[["usr/bin/sdbootutil", "install"]]` Error output: Could not prepare boot variable: No space left on deviceMy machine is an ASUS Vivobook Z1704ZA, and I'm dual-booting alongside Windows 11. I tried researching the problem myself but didn't find much. Any leads would be greatly appreciated.
openSUSE Tumbleweed + Cosmic (w. Nvidia twenty series) openSUSE Tumbleweed + Cosmic (w. Nvidia twenty series)u/MariusXP•1 mo. agoopenSUSE Tumbleweed + Cosmic (w. Nvidia twenty series)ok, I don't have much spare time, so I was tweaking and got it working, but my Nvidia Driver won't install properly. Like, I got everything else to work, but the GraphicsCard won't accept any driver with cosmic, on KDE I have my full FramerateFixed:Hey, so i want to switch Distro after two Years, but I have some difficulties installing the Cosmic DE. On arch I did use the Cosmic-Greeter, but it didn't work for me, so I tried gdm, but I think I am stuck. Is there like an AUR package for Tumbleweed like there was for arch? Or an Installer-Script? Thanks in advance
Searching for SuSe 7.3 PowerPC Searching for SuSe 7.3 PowerPCu/kinda_oldtechstuff•6 days agoSearching for SuSe 7.3 PowerPCHi, I already have a boxed 7.1 and various other PPC oriented distros but I would like to find the 7.3 version. Does anyone of you nice people have it gathering dust somewhere? Thanks!
MicroOS on RPi4 after hard power reboot MicroOS on RPi4 after hard power rebootu/Glum-Explorer-3795•3 days agoMicroOS on RPi4 after hard power rebootHi there, i install MicroOS on my Pi4B and want use it. After first boot i'm had ssh access, plug out power cable and go out. Now, i plug in cable and can't connect.I also don't see Rpi in the list of connected devices on the router (Eth).Is it normal user experience? How must i use it?
Old RTS Microsoft Games Old RTS Microsoft Gamesu/eldarvanyar•1 mo. agoOld RTS Microsoft GamesCan I play old RTS Microsoft games such as Age of Empires, Command and Conquer, Lord of the Rings on Open Suse?Thanks
Signature verification failed for repomd.xml (Tumbleweed OSS) Signature verification failed for repomd.xml (Tumbleweed OSS)u/Codalunga•7 days agoSignature verification failed for repomd.xml (Tumbleweed OSS)SolvedHey there everyone,Anyone else getting this error when trying to update Tumbleweed? Looks like the key has expired. I'm on stock repos, never edited them nor added anything extra.Is it just a matter of waiting a couple of days and it will fix automagically, or should I do something manually?Thanks folks!
qt.qpa.xcb: could not connect to display qt.qpa.xcb: could not connect to displayu/Big-Rhubarb4547•1 mo. agoqt.qpa.xcb: could not connect to displayI've run into troubles with my freshly-installed openSUSE Leap 16. Every single time, when I'm trying to run an application with root privileges (this means: for example by typing into terminalsudo dolphin) I get a following error message:qt.qpa.xcb: could not connect to display   qt.qpa.plugin: From 6.5.0, xcb-cursor0 or libxcb-cursor0 is needed to load the Qt xcb platform plugin. qt.qpa.plugin: Could not load the Qt platform plugin "xcb" in "" even though it was found. This application failed to start because no Qt platform plugin could be initialized. Reinstalling the application may fix this problem.  Available platform plugins are: eglfs, linuxfb, minimal, minimalegl, offscreen, vkkhrdisplay, vnc, xcb, wayland-egl, wayland.I'd would very grateful for explaining what's going on here ....
Why have you chosen openSUSE over Fedora? Why have you chosen openSUSE over Fedora?u/mutotmz•1 mo. agoWhy have you chosen openSUSE over Fedora?I am considering to switch to openSUSE from Fedora since I am having some freezing issues on Fedora with my current laptop. It is a Lenovo Legion 5 with and GPU (and iGPU) and Nvidia GTX 5060 GPU.I haven't used openSUSE for more than 10 years, so I don't know my way around it very well these days.If you have recently used Fedora and openSUSE, how can you compare those two? Why did you choose openSUSE? I want a good balance between stability and up-to-date software, I heard Tumbleweed was the best rolling distro for those who want this balance. Is this also your experience?Additional question: How is your experience with hybrid GPU and secure boot on openSUSE?
Linux Beginner Linux Beginneru/GustavStew•1 mo. agoLinux BeginnerHi everyone! I've been using Linux for exactly two months now. I've used Ubuntu and Mint before, and I'm interested in openSUSE. I wanted to know your opinion on whether it's worth migrating to it. I study programming, play games, and  record videos, I wanted to know if OpenSUSE Tumbleweed would be a good option for me; I have a Galaxy Book 4 laptop with an Intel U300 processor and 8GB of RAM. Thanks!
Weird Checksum issue on zypper Weird Checksum issue on zypperu/FRK299•1 mo. agoWeird Checksum issue on zypperTech supportReally weird issue on OpenSuse Tumbleweedfouz@localhost:~> cat /etc/*releaseNAME="openSUSE Tumbleweed"# VERSION="20260103"ID="opensuse-tumbleweed"ID_LIKE="opensuse suse"VERSION_ID="20260103"PRETTY_NAME="openSUSE Tumbleweed"ANSI_COLOR="0;32"# CPE 2.3 format, boo#1217921CPE_NAME="cpe:2.3:o:opensuse:tumbleweed:20260103:*:*:*:*:*:*:*"#CPE 2.2 format#CPE_NAME="cpe:/o:opensuse:tumbleweed:20260103"BUG_REPORT_URL="https://bugzilla.opensuse.org"SUPPORT_URL="https://bugs.opensuse.org"HOME_URL="https://www.opensuse.org"DOCUMENTATION_URL="https://en.opensuse.org/Portal:Tumbleweed"LOGO="distributor-logo-Tumbleweed"https://pastebin.com/jrGqsCb1here's a pastebin of the zypper updatea lot of the repos seem so have the same checksum for some reason?? I have no idea why it's like thisI haven't open opensuse in a couple weeks, if that helps
Linux noob stranded... Which community repo is good for Sunshine streaming? Linux noob stranded... Which community repo is good for Sunshine streaming?u/Bechlee7851•1 mo. agoLinux noob stranded... Which community repo is good for Sunshine streaming?Tech questionI installed openSUSE Tumbleweed to my main gaming rig to use it as powerful remote-ready KDE machine.But when I tried flatpak version, I cannot complete the setup that is described in docs page. And when I tried community repos, it spits checksum error and it scared me...So to use my desktop as moonlight machine with linux, what should I do? I want at least one bare-metal linux remote desktop...
Does OpenSUSE Tumbleweed provide a "Headache-free" experience? Does OpenSUSE Tumbleweed provide a "Headache-free" experience?u/ReallyNano•14 days agoDoes OpenSUSE Tumbleweed provide a "Headache-free" experience?Tech questionI'm on Fedora for at least one year now, with some weeks testing out NixOS and coming back to Arch to see how things were after I left it (used for around two years).I am thinking of switching to OpenSUSE but I wanted to hear about how painful it is on a day-to-day basis and to set it up in general.On Fedora, whenever I do a clean install I usually just install all packages I need (mostly Flatpaks, with a few exceptions), then I install the Nvidia driver (which is done by installing a single package and forgetting about it), configure DNF and then I'm basically done and can run for months without needing to do anything apart from booting up, playing some games or studying, update once in a week or something and that's about it.When I was trying out other distros (NixOS and Arch), I stumbled upon weird problems like games (Hades II) not recognizing my graphics card (despite trying to mess with modeset, every proton and protonGE versions available and so on), programs closing out a bunch of apps when started (a software called Hydra would just close steam, Bitwarden and some other software randomly, I never understood why).I know that these distros that I've mentioned are DIY kinda things and that they will throw some curveballs from time to time, so I'm not really mad about it and was just taking a look on how things were doing on these distros, so there's that.---I know about snapper and btrfs snapshots, so I'm not really worried about stability, just about the OOTB experience and setting things up for success.I just wanted to hear some words from people who are daily driving OpenSUSE and are willing to share some of their experience and knowledge.
No network/wifi on a new Zenbook, can’t install the OS No network/wifi on a new Zenbook, can’t install the OSu/oiledhairyfurryballs•1 mo. agoNo network/wifi on a new Zenbook, can’t install the OS
Waydroid is now available at Emulators OBS repo Waydroid is now available at Emulators OBS repou/JMarcosHP•26 days agoWaydroid is now available at Emulators OBS repoNew stuffHi folks, Waydroid is now available atEmulatorsrepo as a subproject. Thanks to Jim.We are looking for contributors that want to improve the Waydroid integration in openSUSE systems. Please refer tohttps://codeberg.org/jimed-rand/waydroid-opensuse-sources
What Is The OpenSuse Rename Status What Is The OpenSuse Rename Statusu/NoonDread•10 days agoWhat Is The OpenSuse Rename StatusWas there any outcome to Suse wanting OpenSuse to rename? I remember a lot of discussion was generated when it happened but I  never any outcome.
When will Tunbleweed get the new installer? When will Tunbleweed get the new installer?u/diekoss•1 mo. agoWhen will Tunbleweed get the new installer?Tech questionYesterday I decided to give OpenSUSE another try after ~3 years and I must say it works pretty well. I installed Leap 16 and Tumbleweed and I noticed that Leap 16 uses a new installer called Agama. The experience was great, it looks good, the flow is good, just a great experience.Then I noticed that tumbleweed uses YaST. It works good as well, but to be honest, it looks dated and Agama just felt better.When (if at all?) will Tumbleweed start to use the Agama installer?
Unity Hub on Tumbleweed Unity Hub on Tumbleweedu/Alvaroms25•5 days agoUnity Hub on TumbleweedHello! I'm trying to install Unity Hub on my tumbleweed install but i can only seem to find the Rhel rpm from the official website, how would i go with installing it on tumbleweed?
Gwenview can't play videos - it's just black Gwenview can't play videos - it's just blacku/taryus•5 days agoGwenview can't play videos - it's just blackTech supportI have codecs installed via opi, all that good stuff. Everything else works fine. (VLC doesn't work with hardware acceleration on, but browsers are able to play videos just fine, but anyway that's irrelevant)I found this posthttps://forums.opensuse.org/t/mp4-files-not-playing-in-gwenview/151851where someone recommended:sudo zypper install gstreamer-*-codecs phonon4qt5-backend-vlcsudo zypper remove phonon4qt5-backend-gstreamerI've done this as well as countless other ways to try and install these gstreamer codecs. Pretty sure I have everything I need; also I am using packman for codecs.Anyone else run into this and figured out a way to solve it?
Take 90mg vyvanse and install openSUSE for the first time Take 90mg vyvanse and install openSUSE for the first timeu/220mi•13 days agoTake 90mg vyvanse and install openSUSE for the first time
Hp laserjet 1020 is not working in opensuse.someone please help me fix my issue. Hp laserjet 1020 is not working in opensuse.someone please help me fix my issue.u/Version_Internal•6 days agoHp laserjet 1020 is not working in opensuse.someone please help me fix my issue.How to… !this specific printer is hard to use with linux because it is designed in a way that for every print the firmware is needed to send to printer for it to work. i solved this issue in fedorathis wayand tried same in opensuse but it does not work
Remembering last selection in GRUB2-BLS Remembering last selection in GRUB2-BLSu/Bingo90909•5 days agoRemembering last selection in GRUB2-BLSHow to… ?How can I make GRUB2-BLS remember the last selection? I've only found ways to edit the kernel parameters, but I have no idea where to change other settings for the BLS version.
Wicked Tricks ? Wicked Tricks ?u/Emergency_Bedroom275•7 days agoWicked Tricks ?What is happening? I did a full painful migration to 16 Leap and all vestiges of "SUSE" things besides SAMBA. I am as far as the Myrln package manager and  Wicked. But it is being put back? Really has SUSE really decided the big decisions with  LEAP 16 LoL...
Tumbleweed – Review of the week 2026/3 Tumbleweed – Review of the week 2026/3u/bmwiedemann•25 days agoTumbleweed – Review of the week 2026/3New versionhttps://dominique.leuenberger.net/blog/2026/01/tumbleweed-review-of-the-week-2026-3/
Moving from Kubuntu- anything to be aware of? Moving from Kubuntu- anything to be aware of?u/Slopagandhi•1 mo. agoMoving from Kubuntu- anything to be aware of?I've been using Kubuntu (and before that Mint) on my desktop for a while now but am thinking of installing Tumbleweed/KDE on my (currently Windows) work laptop (2023 LG Gram 16 2 in 1, 16GB, i7-1360P).Interested in trying a distro with a rolling release and the ability to do more with the GUI (as I understand it, at least)Is there anything in particular I need to be wary of? With the distro (e.g installation, drivers, higher level of complexity) or compatibility with my device (battery? Fan issues?) and use case (touchscreen, ideally stylus support, some external monitor/thunderbolt dock use).Thanks!
Goverlay in game metrics unable to show on Tumbleweed. Goverlay in game metrics unable to show on Tumbleweed.u/spacecadet_98•1 mo. agoGoverlay in game metrics unable to show on Tumbleweed.I might not be the only one in here.I busted my ass for three hours on optimizing TW on my battlestation (i5 14600 kf / radeon rx 7700xt) to have the most sleek gaming experience, and I am super duper happy with it.However goverlay is not buying it. The overlay shows on command in vkcube and OpenGL too but whether on KDE x11 or Wayland, there's no wya I can have it displayed on my monitor. I tried running it in The finals, Expedition 33 or Morbid Metal demo (all running on Proton Experimental) I heard Goverlay was updated lately , so that could probably be the result of a missing feature in the latest version (1.6.10). Any suggestions ? I installed it via flatpak.Thanks in advanceEdit : Solved 🤗 the command to enable overlay was simply mangohud %command% and not MANGOHUD=1
My / partition is filling up! How to clean unnecessary temp files and flatpaks? My / partition is filling up! How to clean unnecessary temp files and flatpaks?u/ManinaPanina•1 mo. agoMy / partition is filling up! How to clean unnecessary temp files and flatpaks?Tech questionDidn't noticed, I barely install things here.I think I could at least remove old kernels, right?Is possible to use BleachBit on Tumbleweed?Never tried to clean a SUSE distro, first time, so better ask first before making some mistake.Back on my KDE NEon days I used Muon to see the installed packages to search for things to remove. Can Myrlyn do this? The interface is confusing.
OpenSUSE only launches through the "Boot From Hard Disk" option in the usb drive. OpenSUSE only launches through the "Boot From Hard Disk" option in the usb drive.u/Kediester•1 mo. agoOpenSUSE only launches through the "Boot From Hard Disk" option in the usb drive.Tech questionWhen I try to launch my laptop, it launches the GNU GRUB terminal. However when I go to the USB drive and select the boot from hard disk option Open SUSE launches normally. How can i launch OpenSUSE without having to have this USB plugged in constantly? Also im on a dual boot with win 10 (that got locked because of stupid bitlocker.)
installing gibbonedu.org fails due missing permissions in serverroot installing gibbonedu.org fails due missing permissions in serverrootu/tagesleuchtrot•6 days agoinstalling gibbonedu.org fails due missing permissions in serverrootTech supportIm trying to installgibbonedu.org(https://docs.gibbonedu.org/introduction/installing-gibbon) on my tumbleweed-system.ive reached that point where i can finally access their installer via localhost (im solely a desktop-user) but now get thaterror message:'The directory containing the Gibbon files is not currently writable. Unable to create config.php.'ive set that directory (i suppose its the one defined in vhost.conf ) tomod-775and checked that user:group matches that fromapache2/uid.conf:ls -lddrwxrwxr-x. 1 wwwrun www 2072 6. Feb 19:06 /srv/www/html/gibbon/the error persists even when i make changes as thatls -ldrwxrwxrwx. 1 wwwrun www 2072 6. Feb 19:06 /srv/www/html/gibbon/what r m i missing?
Can openSUSE Tumbleweed Compete With CachyOS Performance? Can openSUSE Tumbleweed Compete With CachyOS Performance?u/LowIllustrator2501•20 days agoCan openSUSE Tumbleweed Compete With CachyOS Performance?Newshttps://www.phoronix.com/review/opensuse-tw-cachyos
What are concrete benefits/features over other distros that make you run opensuse (tumbleweed) over other distros? What are concrete benefits/features over other distros that make you run opensuse (tumbleweed) over other distros?u/SpicyBananaa•25 days agoWhat are concrete benefits/features over other distros that make you run opensuse (tumbleweed) over other distros?Hello.I have been using variety of linux distros about 10 years now.  Mostly either on fedora (my current machine) or arch, I am considering  trying out the opensuse tumbleweed, but I am still quite unsure about the switch. Currently what I do on my machine is programming work and lightweight gaming. So what makes you run opensuse over other distros preferably from perspective of using it as daily machine? Thank you beforehand for your answers.
Difficulty ripping DVDs with k3b Difficulty ripping DVDs with k3bu/LotlKing47•7 days agoDifficulty ripping DVDs with k3bTech supportHi y'all, I wanted to ask for some advice regarding k3b. I have been able to burn media onto empty disks, however i am unable to rip titles from already burnt disks.It is saying that I need transcode, but that is already installed according to both zypper and myrlyn. I did see a few old posts talking about there generally being issues with this transcode dependancies but i wanted to just ask how it is now and if I am able to rip a disk nowadays using k3b, and if not then what my other options are.I also tried ripping through VLC but it only managed to take half of the film, and then just kind of gave up, so yea. ,_,
Leap from Fedora migration disappointing Leap from Fedora migration disappointingu/wilemhermes•1 mo. agoLeap from Fedora migration disappointing
KDE plasma Opensuse tumbleweed or KDE plasma fedora KDE plasma Opensuse tumbleweed or KDE plasma fedorau/Flat_Wasabi8999•17 days agoKDE plasma Opensuse tumbleweed or KDE plasma fedoraI mainly want the os to be stable in the sense updates don't break anything so which one should I choose
Kwin Tiler That Supports Touch or Stylus Tiling Kwin Tiler That Supports Touch or Stylus Tilingu/Miserable-School-665•1 mo. agoKwin Tiler That Supports Touch or Stylus TilingTech supportHi, I've tried every tiler in KDE Store, as well as a few others. But every single one of them couldn't pick up touch or stylus coordinates, so even tho I pick up and move windows to left side, it tiles to same right position for example. Do you know any works with touch at the least?Video (Gdrive)Opensuse Leap 16KDE Plasma 6.4.1WaylandIntegrated Wacom touch and stlyus of Lenovo Ideapad 2-in-1 (works fine)
Agama does not respect my choices Agama does not respect my choicesu/Admirable_Stand1408•1 mo. agoAgama does not respect my choicesTech questionWhy does OpenSUSE agama not respect my choice i uncheck multi media and office tools and still I got the whole Home Depot inventory? Now it’s uninstall a ton of apps seriously openSUSE what’s up with the bloat ?
A New Year A New Yearu/MainPowerful5653•1 mo. agoA New Year
Problems while migrating from Arch Problems while migrating from Archu/Niicoojk•1 mo. agoProblems while migrating from ArchSolvedHi! I'm an Linux User that got bored of the constant debug/fixing that Arch requires (I've been using it by 2 years or so) and want something more stable. I'm trying to migrate to openSUSE Leap and it's been more difficult than I thought due to an error with Medicat (Ventoy) + the ISOs.dracut-initqueue[956]: Warning: dracut-initqueue: starting timeout scripts  dracut-initqueue[956]: Warning: dracut-initqueue: timeout, still waiting for following initqueue hooks:  dracut-initqueue[956]: Warning: /lib/dracut/hooks/initqueue/finished/devexists-\x2fdev\x2fdisk\x2by-label\x2fInstall-leap-16.0-x86_64.sh: "[ -e "/dev/disk/by-label/Install-Leap-16.0-x86_64" ]"It seems like the installer file cant be found, so the ISO cant boot right. I've tried booting it from grub2 and memdisk, but nothing changed. I've also tried using both online and offline ISO and got the same result.If anyone got to get past this issue, I'd be glad for receiving some advices. I've lost my other pendrive and don't want to install medicat again if its possible.EDIT: I did check the checksum, and it works fine on QEMU, but I want it to run on baremetal.EDIT 2: I tried to burn it on a pendrive with Rufus and got the same error. It's late so if someone has a tip, I'll read it tomorrowSolved?: I gave up with the ventoy issue, the openSUSE installations need to be done with a dd image that can't be done (at least not easily) with Ventoy, so... It doesn't fullfill my requirements but it is what it is.
Is it worth switching from Debian to Leap? Is it worth switching from Debian to Leap?u/nisper_ia•1 mo. agoIs it worth switching from Debian to Leap?In short, I use Debian with KDE Plasma for its performance. I used Tumbleweed in the past and liked it quite a bit, so I naturally thought of Leap as the stable option. But, is it worth switching from Debian?
Questions about Minimal openSUSE Installation, Software Management, and DE Switching Questions about Minimal openSUSE Installation, Software Management, and DE Switchingu/External-Werewolf-98•1 mo. agoQuestions about Minimal openSUSE Installation, Software Management, and DE SwitchingHow to… ?
Muffled/Low Quality Audio on openSUSE Leap 16 - Realtek HD Audio Muffled/Low Quality Audio on openSUSE Leap 16 - Realtek HD Audiou/Stunning_Arachnid875•1 mo. agoMuffled/Low Quality Audio on openSUSE Leap 16 - Realtek HD AudioTech supportI installed openSUSE Leap 16 and everything works well except for audio quality. The sound is muffled and low quality compared to Windows and other Linux distros (Fedora, Debian, Ubuntu) on the same hardware.Hardware:Audio Controller: Intel Corporation CM238 HD Audio Controller (rev 31)Codec: Realtek ALC3246Sound System: PipeWire 1.4.6Issue:Audio sounds muffled across all applications (Firefox, Spotify, Lollypop, Brave)High and low frequencies are barely present/subduedOverall sound quality is noticeably worse than on Windows or other distrosWhat I've tried:Installed alsa-toolsIncreased max volume with PulseAudio Volume Control (pavucontrol)Verified drivers are loaded (snd_hda_codec_realtek is active)System Info:$ cat /proc/asound/cards0 [PCH            ]: HDA-Intel - HDA Intel PCHHDA Intel PCH at 0xef348000 irq 140$ cat /proc/asound/card0/codec#0 | head -4Codec: Realtek ALC3246Address: 0AFG Function Id: 0x1 (unsol 1)Vendor Id: 0x10ec0256(I asked Claude to help me to organize all info you might need to help me)
Should i choose Opensuse or Fedora Should i choose Opensuse or Fedorau/crazsum04•26 days agoShould i choose Opensuse or FedoraSo I'm weighing up Fedora vs Opensuse Slowroll. I am on a laptop and prefer to use KDE as my desktop. Does zypper still have issues with packagekit sometimes? and is zypper much slower than dnf now? i want something for university that is stable but my laptop definitely responds better to newer packages so i figure slowroll is the best middle ground. What are everyone's experiences
VLC drop chapter indicators for anyone else? VLC drop chapter indicators for anyone else?u/computer-machine•7 days agoVLC drop chapter indicators for anyone else?Tech supportFor the last couple weeks I've noticed that both the RPM and flatpak VLC clients no longer have any lines showing on the progress bar.Has that happened to anyone else? I tried skimming and searching the preferences, but there doesn't appear to be anything to suppress graphical chapters (the bar-triangle and triangle-bar buttons still jump chapters), and cursory search doesn't appear to bring up anything either.Running Tumbelweed with Plasma, checked both X11 and Wayland.
Customizations??? Customizations???u/User_reddit69•7 days agoCustomizations???I recently installed opensuse..Could u please suggest kde plugins or customisations..
Unable to search and install package Unable to search and install packageu/Immediate_Sky8523•1 mo. agoUnable to search and install packageI am planning to switch toopenSUSE Tumbleweed.I installed in Virtualbox before installing on main laptop. Purpose of this is to get familiar with package manager.I am not able to search and install package with these commands.I get same result when I replace thunderbird with htop, chromium, etc.
20260101 20260101u/darknetmatrix•1 mo. ago20260101
New tumbleweed user query New tumbleweed user queryu/Pepe__LePew•1 mo. agoNew tumbleweed user queryTech questionHistorically I've been an arch user for latest apps (elementary os, manjaro) but got tired of the breakage fixes when left unused for long periods.Switched to void which is very nice, but limited with apps.   Got tired of finding workarounds and decided to go with deb or rpm distro as they get the most recent software releases in various developer sites.Mx Linux (stable Debian) and sparky (testing Debian) both work well but i was looking for something with latest apps while keeping stable base system.Freebsd and Opensuse seem to fit this bill from my understanding.Freebsd works very well if the right hardware is chosen.  Bluetooth a problem and 2 specific Linux projects not ported yet, and potentially more in the future.   I might be able to find workarounds with Linuxulator but not checked yet.Turning to tumbleweed.2 queries.why does yast keep looking for my install usb media.  Is there a way to stop this.is there a better package manager.  It doesn't seem to find as many packages as Mx or sparky.Thanks
openSUSE Forum openSUSE Forumu/luminous_sp•9 days agoopenSUSE ForumHi All.I can't create a topic on the forum.https://forums.opensuse.orgI registered three days ago.What am I doing wrong?Thx.P.S. I wrote to the administrator. There was a bug. Now everything works.
Whaat the diff? Whaat the diff?u/Emergency_Bedroom275•1 mo. agoWhaat the diff?If SUSE is deprecating YaST, Wicked and there are no announced plan of Snapper, that I know of this post, what makes SUSE different than Red Hat and Ubuntu as a distro or server? Its seems like there is no different than the branding.As of now Snapper is the only reason I have been sticking with it  as of now.  Now Wicked gone  have had to relearn openVSwitch. It used to be as easy as SUSE's awesome documentation pre 18.  But now? aye aye aye.If Snapper btfrs filesystem support or not. Then what is the point of SUSE if it is following RH?
Calling to any openSUSE users who want to run Waydroid. Calling to any openSUSE users who want to run Waydroid.u/LoudRaccoon590•1 mo. agoCalling to any openSUSE users who want to run Waydroid.HelpCalling to any openSUSE users who want to run Waydroid.r/waydroid•1 mo. agoCalling to any openSUSE users who want to run Waydroid.Now you can help me fix the current issues bycontributing to my SRPMs repo at my Codeberg repo and help me fix the problem by contributing it.Any PRs are welcome, but you need to have a Codeberg account first and fork it before opening PR (creating a new branch for making PR is required so it won't break with the master branch).Since runa-chin leaves the internet a long ago, she didn't maintain anymore andI am interested to continuing maintain the repo in my own path. It seems I need more help for fixing the current that happens to anyone like binder module issues and some other issues.17upvotes·7comments
Got P4G game working fine but after an update it now doesn't run well? Got P4G game working fine but after an update it now doesn't run well?u/Jimmeh20•11 days agoGot P4G game working fine but after an update it now doesn't run well?Tech supportI got P4G working before by installing Tumbleweed and following the sites guide to installing nvidia drivers.I did zypper dup and shut down before going on holiday for a week. Now that I'm back P4G performance is back to being abysmal. It's similar to how it was before I got the proper nvidia drivers installed. Menu is fine but as soon as game loads fps drops to like 1.Any advice?edit: To get it to work consistently I set nvidia-smi to run on startup. Just now when I tried nvidia-smi I get "Failed to initialize NVML: Driver/library version mismatch NVML library version: 580.105"
Grub resolution problem Grub resolution problemu/Spethual•12 days agoGrub resolution problemTech support
I join openSUSE user community today, I join openSUSE user community today,u/Rayman_666•22 days agoI join openSUSE user community today,After getting cheater my manjaro for gaps of a month or so,I install openSUSE leap today, I like the interior but the startup is horrible, It allow me to easily switch between environment like KDE,  xfce . I can't figure out what's selinux I installed and should I have it over apparmour, Should I use fire-walld or gufw,I am using it for development purpose and also install kvm for occasional vm uses ,Please help with guide for better user experiences.
https://software.opensuse.org/ is down https://software.opensuse.org/ is downu/AscadianScrib•12 days agohttps://software.opensuse.org/ is downdoeshttps://software.opensuse.org/give 503 Service Unavailable for everyone else as well? Edit: it's working again!
General considerations about the openSUSE project General considerations about the openSUSE projectu/FZwertyu34•1 mo. agoGeneral considerations about the openSUSE projectHi, I have some opnions I want to share and I'm curious about yours. I hope to be construtive.About the project in general I feel like it achieves a lot compared to the dimensions of the community, but sometimes I feel like it's too ambitious and some things tend to be half-done or it evolves a bit slowly even if the idea was great. It's not necessarily a bad thing: this mentality can make you achieve a lot, but it's not ideal to present yourself.In particular now I want to talk about some of their distros.Tumbleweed - great, S tier distro, even if it's a bit too bloated by default (for example if you you choose gnome and don't touch anything during the installation you get all the gnome games)Leap - I don't get it: it gets older than Debian, but the packages available are just too few. Someone could argue it's good for things like servers but there is Leap micro and MicroOS so I really struggle to see it's purposeSlowroll - Interesting idea, hoping that the packages will be as many as there are in Tumbleweed with the official release (if not I don't see the point)Aeon & Kalpa - Not for me but interesting, hoping that they will be officially released quickly.Now I want to talk about YaST and Agama.Agama looks great and the fact that it can be used in the browser can very useful but it's still unready: YaST installer has so many more options that it can be a problem if Agama won't evolve and expand quickly. While YaST installer is probably the best installer in the linux distros world, the YaST utilities are a bit overrated: most of the unique features that it provides are things that a normal user would never touch, but if you are a power user doing things in the terminal is faster (and the bad UI wouldn't help) so I don't think it's such a bad thing its deprecation.What do you think guys?Edit: I know Aeon isn't technically part of the openSUSE project but I wanted to insert it too.
How about switching from fedora gnome to opensuse tumbleweed kde ? How about switching from fedora gnome to opensuse tumbleweed kde ?u/User_reddit69•10 days agoHow about switching from fedora gnome to opensuse tumbleweed kde ?Could u please tell some advices or useful suggestions.
How do we fix this ? Getting this for every repo upon doing sudo zypper dup. Cant update at all How do we fix this ? Getting this for every repo upon doing sudo zypper dup. Cant update at allu/WeWeBunnyX•1 mo. agoHow do we fix this ? Getting this for every repo upon doing sudo zypper dup. Cant update at allSolvedFull gist/log here:https://gist.github.com/WeWeBunnyX/2e4e8a56bb8cbf04c6761ff39beba901
Tumbleweed has now grown to over 200k users (again) Tumbleweed has now grown to over 200k users (again)u/jungfred•1 mo. agoTumbleweed has now grown to over 200k users (again)News
Just installed opensuse, how does one rice this? Just installed opensuse, how does one rice this?u/A--h0le•12 days agoJust installed opensuse, how does one rice this?How to… !
MicroOS + NUT ups CyberPower driver not loading MicroOS + NUT ups CyberPower driver not loadingu/allenb1•1 mo. agoMicroOS + NUT ups CyberPower driver not loadingMicroOSI'm trying to get NUT running on MicroOS, but getting stuck with the driver failing to load.  I've had the same UPS (Cyberpower VP1000) running on a RPI, and have applied the same/similar configs to NUT installed to the base MicroOS system (ie transactional-update, not in a container).I've mostly just accepted the defaults in the conf files, using this definition of the UPS system: # /etc/ups/ups.conf [cyberpower] driver = "usbhid-ups" port = "auto" pollonly = "enabled"I've also created a udev rule that sets the mode to "0666".When I run the driver manually using/usr/libexec/ups/driver/usbhid-ups -DD -a cyberpowereverything works as expected - the device is found, driver loaded, and values returned.When I start nut-server.service & nut-monitor.service though, I get the following via journalctl (reverse order) which shows a misformed path to a PID.  Given the bind fails a few messages later I wonder if there is a problem in a script that creates the PID?  I haven't been able to find anything, but can't say that I've exhausted all options as I don't really know NUT source.(note reverse order - recent messages at top) Jan 03 13:18:53 localhost systemd[1]: Failed to start Network UPS Tools - device driver for NUT device 'cyberpower'. Jan 03 13:18:53 localhost systemd[1]: nut-driver@cyberpower.service: Failed with result 'exit-code'. Jan 03 13:18:53 localhost systemd[1]: nut-driver@cyberpower.service: Main process exited, code=exited, status=1/FAILURE Jan 03 13:18:53 localhost usbhid-ups[19712]: Exiting. Jan 03 13:18:53 localhost usbhid-ups[19712]: Defaulting 'pollfreq' to 12 for CPS devices Jan 03 13:18:53 localhost nut-driver@cyberpower[19712]:  - run this program as some other user (try -u <username>) Jan 03 13:18:53 localhost nut-driver@cyberpower[19712]:  - set different owners or permissions on /var/lib/ups Jan 03 13:18:53 localhost nut-driver@cyberpower[19712]: Things to try: Jan 03 13:18:53 localhost nut-driver@cyberpower[19712]: Current user: upsd (UID 469) Jan 03 13:18:53 localhost nut-driver@cyberpower[19712]: bind /var/lib/ups/usbhid-ups-cyberpower failed: Permission denied Jan 03 13:18:53 localhost nut-driver@cyberpower[19712]: Fatal error: unable to create listener socket Jan 03 13:18:53 localhost nut-driver@cyberpower[19712]: Exiting. Jan 03 13:18:53 localhost nut-driver@cyberpower[19712]: Defaulting 'pollfreq' to 12 for CPS devices Jan 03 13:18:52 localhost nut-driver@cyberpower[19712]: Using subdriver: CyberPower HID 0.84 Jan 03 13:18:52 localhost nut-driver@cyberpower[19712]: writepid: fopen /var/lib/ups//var/lib/ups/usbhid-ups-cyberpower.pid.pid: No such file or directory Jan 03 13:18:52 localhost nut-driver@cyberpower[19712]: USB communication driver (libusb 1.0) 0.50 Jan 03 13:18:52 localhost nut-driver@cyberpower[19712]: Network UPS Tools 2.8.4 release - Generic HID driver 0.67 Jan 03 13:18:52 localhost nut-driver@cyberpower[19712]: Network UPS Tools upsdrvctl - UPS driver controller 2.8.4 release Jan 03 13:18:51 localhost systemd[1]: Starting Network UPS Tools - device driver for NUT device 'cyberpower'...Have you managed to get NUT running on MicroOS?  Any ideas why the driver loads manually but not via the services?Thanks.
Can't remove nomodeset parameter from GRUB Can't remove nomodeset parameter from GRUBu/Siebter•1 mo. agoCan't remove nomodeset parameter from GRUBAfter a few hanging install attempts, I was able to successfully install Leap 16.0 by using the "nomodeset" parameter in GRUB.The issue I have now is that, in order to get a proper screen resolution, I have to remove said parameter each time by editing the respective line in GRUB whenever I boot. It appears that setting this parameter during the install will permanently write it in the GRUB config.Now, I read that I can simply remove "nomodeset" from/etc/default/grub(and rungrub2-mkconfig -o /boot/grub2/grub.cfgafterwards), but I can't find any line in the GRUB config that mentions the nomodeset parameter, thus I'm not able to eliminate it.Can anyone help me out?Thx for taking the time.
Was ghostty removed from tumbleweed repos? Was ghostty removed from tumbleweed repos?u/anonymous_8181•1 mo. agoWas ghostty removed from tumbleweed repos?I had ghostty installed and I didn't check all the updates as it's been some weeks. ghostty was not found and also while searching for it, nothing provides ghostty. It's weird. Has anyone faced the same issue?
New Year and new tumbleweed install on my desktop New Year and new tumbleweed install on my desktopu/darknetmatrix•1 mo. agoNew Year and new tumbleweed install on my desktopNew version
changed bios settings, im having problems with full disk encryption changed bios settings, im having problems with full disk encryptionu/m3r1tc4n•1 mo. agochanged bios settings, im having problems with full disk encryptionSolved
Install Leap 16 on a Dell Vostro 3700 Install Leap 16 on a Dell Vostro 3700u/Thieberius•13 days agoInstall Leap 16 on a Dell Vostro 3700The Last days i tried to Install Leap onto my vostro 3700. But No Matter what, IT wont Work. At first i tried to Install IT with ventoy, then i ready that i shouldnt usw IT because of many bigs that can appear.Then i flashed the Image via balena Etcher, but this Just gives me an Error If i Hit Install.And yes even in the "failsave" Install Mode...So i installed Mint via ventoy, this worked fine.What am indoing wrong?
finally migrated to openSUSE leap 16 finally migrated to openSUSE leap 16u/m3r1tc4n•1 mo. agofinally migrated to openSUSE leap 16I finally completed the change I wanted to make for a long time with the new year, I was dealing with windows 11 nonsense just to play a few games, but now I'm using openSUSE
NVIDIA drivers Installation error NVIDIA drivers Installation erroru/Expert_Function146•1 mo. agoNVIDIA drivers Installation errorHello when installing NVIDIA drivers on my PC, it says that they were installed in the end, but i get many errors during installation. The problem is in the "nvidia-driver-G06-kmp-default-550.144.03_k6.12.9_1-30.2.x86_64" package. I installed it withzypper install-new-recommendsLook:depmod: ERROR: fstatat(5, nvidia-drm.ko): No such file or directorydepmod: ERROR: fstatat(5, nvidia-modeset.ko): No such file or directorydepmod: ERROR: fstatat(5, nvidia-uvm.ko): No such file or directorydepmod: ERROR: fstatat(5, nvidia.ko): No such file or directorySKIP: /usr/share/nvidia-pubkeys/MOK-nvidia-driver-G06-550.144.03-30.2-default.der is not in MokListmake: Entering directory '/usr/src/linux-6.18.2-1-obj/x86_64/default'make[1]: Entering directory '/usr/src/kernel-modules/nvidia-550.144.03-default'MODPOST Module.symversmake[1]: Leaving directory '/usr/src/kernel-modules/nvidia-550.144.03-default'make: Leaving directory '/usr/src/linux-6.18.2-1-obj/x86_64/default'/usr/src/kernel-modules/nvidia-550.144.03-default /make[1]: Entering directory '/usr/src/linux-6.18.2-1'make[2]: Entering directory '/usr/src/kernel-modules/nvidia-550.144.03-default'SYMLINK nvidia/nv-kernel.oSYMLINK nvidia-modeset/nv-modeset-kernel.oThen it says many times something with CONFTEST, eg.CONFTEST: hash__remap_4k_pfnAnd finally:nvidia/nv-acpi.c:26:10: fatal error: os-interface.h: No such file or directory26 | #include "os-interface.h"|          ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~compilation terminated.CC [M]  nvidia/nv-p2p.omake[4]: *** [/usr/src/linux-6.18.2-1/scripts/Makefile.build:287: nvidia/nv-acpi.o] Error 1make[4]: *** Waiting for unfinished jobs....CC [M]  nvidia/nv-pat.onvidia/nv-dma.c:26:10: fatal error: os-interface.h: No such file or directory26 | #include "os-interface.h"|          ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~compilation terminated.nvidia/nv-cray.c:26:10: fatal error: os-interface.h: No such file or directory26 | #include "os-interface.h"|          ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~compilation terminated.make[4]: *** [/usr/src/linux-6.18.2-1/scripts/Makefile.build:287: nvidia/nv-dma.o] Error 1make[4]: *** [/usr/src/linux-6.18.2-1/scripts/Makefile.build:287: nvidia/nv-cray.o] Error 1nvidia/nv-mmap.c:26:10: fatal error: os-interface.h: No such file or directory26 | #include "os-interface.h"|          ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~compilation terminated.make[4]: *** [/usr/src/linux-6.18.2-1/scripts/Makefile.build:287: nvidia/nv-mmap.o] Error 1nvidia/nv-p2p.c:26:10: fatal error: os-interface.h: No such file or directory26 | #include "os-interface.h"|          ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~compilation terminated.make[4]: *** [/usr/src/linux-6.18.2-1/scripts/Makefile.build:287: nvidia/nv-p2p.o] Error 1nvidia/nv-pat.c:26:10: fatal error: os-interface.h: No such file or directory26 | #include "os-interface.h"|          ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~compilation terminated.make[4]: *** [/usr/src/linux-6.18.2-1/scripts/Makefile.build:287: nvidia/nv-pat.o] Error 1nvidia/nv-nano-timer.c:30:10: fatal error: os-interface.h: No such file or directory30 | #include "os-interface.h"|          ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~compilation terminated.make[4]: *** [/usr/src/linux-6.18.2-1/scripts/Makefile.build:287: nvidia/nv-nano-timer.o] Error 1nvidia/nv.c:30:10: fatal error: nv-firmware.h: No such file or directory30 | #include "nv-firmware.h"|          ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~compilation terminated.make[4]: *** [/usr/src/linux-6.18.2-1/scripts/Makefile.build:287: nvidia/nv.o] Error 1nvidia/nv-dmabuf.c:24:10: fatal error: nv-dmabuf.h: No such file or directory24 | #include "nv-dmabuf.h"|          ^~~~~~~~~~~~~compilation terminated.make[4]: *** [/usr/src/linux-6.18.2-1/scripts/Makefile.build:287: nvidia/nv-dmabuf.o] Error 1nvidia/nv-pci.c:25:10: fatal error: nv-pci-types.h: No such file or directory25 | #include "nv-pci-types.h"|          ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~compilation terminated.make[4]: *** [/usr/src/linux-6.18.2-1/scripts/Makefile.build:287: nvidia/nv-pci.o] Error 1nvidia/nv-i2c.c:28:10: fatal error: os-interface.h: No such file or directory28 | #include "os-interface.h"|          ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~compilation terminated.make[4]: *** [/usr/src/linux-6.18.2-1/scripts/Makefile.build:287: nvidia/nv-i2c.o] Error 1make[3]: *** [/usr/src/linux-6.18.2-1/Makefile:2033: .] Error 2make[2]: *** [/usr/src/linux-6.18.2-1/Makefile:248: __sub-make] Error 2make[2]: Leaving directory '/usr/src/kernel-modules/nvidia-550.144.03-default'make[1]: *** [Makefile:248: __sub-make] Error 2make[1]: Leaving directory '/usr/src/linux-6.18.2-1'make: *** [Makefile:115: modules] Error 2/install: cannot stat '/usr/src/kernel-modules/nvidia-550.144.03-default/nvidia*.ko': No such file or directory/usr/src/kernel-modules/nvidia-550.144.03-default /rm -f -r conftestmake[1]: Entering directory '/usr/src/linux-6.18.2-1'make[2]: Entering directory '/usr/src/kernel-modules/nvidia-550.144.03-default'CLEAN   .CLEAN   Module.symversmake[2]: Leaving directory '/usr/src/kernel-modules/nvidia-550.144.03-default'make[1]: Leaving directory '/usr/src/linux-6.18.2-1'/.........+.........+.........+.+......+.....+...+......+....+.....+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++*......+......+.+.....+...+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++*..+........+.......+...+...+......+.....+...+.+..+...+.......+...+..+..................+.+.....+...+............+.+........+....+..+......+..........+.........+...+.....+.......+...+...+...+..+....+.........+...........+.+..+.+...........+...+................+..+............+.+......++++++.+.....+.+.....+.+..+......+....+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++*..........+..+.........+.+.........+..+...+....+..+.........+......+....+......+..................+..+.+.....+...+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++*...+...+..+.+.....+..........+.....+....+...........+....+...........+....+.....+.+..+.......+........+....+...+......+............+........+................+...+...+........+.+.....+.+...+..............+.+......+.........+..++++++-----At main.c:302:- SSL error:FFFFFFFF80000002:system library::No such file or directory: crypto/bio/bss_file.c:67- SSL error:10000080:BIO routines::no such file: crypto/bio/bss_file.c:75sign-file: /lib/modules/6.18.2-1-default/updates/nvidia*.koupdate-alternatives: using /usr/lib/nvidia/alternate-install-present-default to provide /usr/lib/nvidia/alternate-install-present (alternate-install-present) in auto modeModprobe blacklist files have been created at /usr/lib/modprobe.d to prevent Nouveau from loading. This can bereverted by deleting /usr/lib/modprobe.d/nvidia-*.conf.*** Reboot your computer and verify that the NVIDIA graphics driver can be loaded. ***warning: %triggerin(nvidia-driver-G06-kmp-default-550.144.03_k6.12.9_1-30.2.x86_64) scriptlet failed, exit status 1(2/4) Installing: nvidia-driver-G06-kmp-default-550.144.03_k6.12.9_1-30.2.x86_64 .......................[doneI guess its a problem with the kernel but i dont know.
Not enough space in EFI Not enough space in EFIu/sid_kailasa•1 mo. agoNot enough space in EFISolvedI was trying to install openSUSE tumbleweed just to get the error that I don't have enough space in the EFI Partition. After some research, I realized that it is recommended to have a 300-500MiB EFI Partition for dual boot setups(but I only have a 100MiB one), and a post on openSUSE forums had a user with the same error. The solution most suggested was to use grub2-efi instead of grubbls, but I have no idea what that really means. Other guides included resizing the EFI itself but I can't because of the MSR partition to its right, which is apparently a consequence of having a GPT disk. I have 29MiB of free space left in my EFI if that helps. Also, I use ventoy and when I try to boot an ISO, it does ask me which mode to boot it in and grub2 was always the first option after the default mode. Does that correlate with my problem here, and how can I fix it?EDIT: I solved it by chrooting from a live usb and installing grub2-efi after removing grubbls
Automatically recreating the repos I've currently got after a reinstall Automatically recreating the repos I've currently got after a reinstallu/nohspamjose•1 mo. agoAutomatically recreating the repos I've currently got after a reinstallTech questionI am about to reinstall OpenSUSE Tumbleweed (because I want to tidy up my partitions and simplify my current storage.I am usingrpm -qa --qf "%{NAME}"\n > installed_pkgs.txtprior to install to create a list of installed packages in my/homedirectory and then post install, I plan to usecat installed_pkgs.txt | xargs sudo zypper into reinstall those packages.It occurred to me that I'd need to have the correct set of repos in place first and I'm trying to work out a similar approach to reinstalling the repos that I've currently got enabledzypper lr -E -e -lists the repos with theirname,baseurl&gpgkeyattributes, which I'll need to script the recreation. I want to pipe the output into a filerepo_list.txtwith just those attributes (and others, if recommended) and then run a script to parse the file to automatically recreate the active repos on the newly installed system.An example of the unfiltered stdout content looks like this:zypper lr -e - [1password] name="1Password Stable Channel" enabled=1 autorefresh=1 baseurl=https://downloads.1password.com/linux/rpm/stable/$basearch type=rpm-md gpgcheck=1 gpgkey=https://downloads.1password.com/linux/keys/1password.asc  [etc...I suspectawk,sedorgrepwould be helpful here but I'm struggling to know which/how.Any bash (preferred) or Python hints, please?After some playing, I've got as far as:zypper lr -e - | egrep -w '^[.]*name|[.]*baseurl|[.]*gpgkey', which returns the correct linesname=Databases (openSUSE_Tumbleweed) baseurl=https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/server:/database/openSUSE_Tumbleweed/ gpgkey=https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/server:/database/openSUSE_Tumbleweed/repodata/repomd.xml.key
BT AUDIO BT AUDIOu/luminous_sp•14 days agoBT AUDIOHello everyone.After an update, radio playback stopped working through Elisa and the Advanced Radio widget via Bluetooth headphones.Online video is fine.Elisa and Advanced Radio work fine through regular headphones.Is this a KDE update issue?
How do i make my screen stop flashing when booting? How do i make my screen stop flashing when booting?u/Thermawrench•1 mo. agoHow do i make my screen stop flashing when booting?How to… ?I am on tw and when i boot i get the usual loading ramdisk linux blablabla. All fine and good, however, my question here is can i make the screen just go blank until it gets to the login screen? It's not a violent flashing but it goes from grey to black to grey again, which is a bit distracting. It also makes the headset do "plugin" noises which can be a bit loud sometimes, as if you just plugged it into the motherboard.
Leap 16 Leap 16u/Dry-Run7623•1 mo. agoLeap 16How to… ?I was using slowroll from last 1 months and I loved yast but after I install leap 16 and I got to know it is no more there. So my question is how will I install rpm files with gui software in leap cause I was too easy with yast? With kde discover it shows error everytime I try so how to do it?
Frequent hangs and self logouts - how to figure out the reason? Frequent hangs and self logouts - how to figure out the reason?u/MrSojek•1 mo. agoFrequent hangs and self logouts - how to figure out the reason?Hello,Can someone please suggest me diagnostics I need to perform to find out the reason for my OS not working properly?For the last 2-3 months, every couple of days, my system suddenly freezes for a few seconds, the screen goes blank and I'm sent back to login manager.I only run memtest86+ but with no errors.Where do I have to look for any clues?
Gpu Gpuu/ForeverHuman1354•1 mo. agoGpuGpur/linuxhardware•1 mo. agoGpuI currently have a7900 XTGPU, which was good for its time, but I want to utilize myHzmore. Tomorrow, I think I will order a5090, a new PSU, and a case. One of my family members who works in IT has agreed to help me build it. I have anR9 7900 CPU.I know NVIDIA is worse on Linux than AMD, but it will still outperform my7900 XTGPU. I have anLG OLED 32with2160pat240 Hzdisplay, so why not go all out on the GPU?Is there anything specific I should know? I runopenSUSE Tumbleweedand play VR games with myValve Index, likeDCS. Should most games run fine, except with a bit lower performance than on Windows? I will not dual boot; I hate Windows and haven’t used it for years.Update Ended up buying a used zotac amp 4090 for good price will atleast crush my 7900xt17comments
I heard that openSUSE supports OOTB secure boot. So am I good to go? I heard that openSUSE supports OOTB secure boot. So am I good to go?u/Bechlee7851•1 mo. agoI heard that openSUSE supports OOTB secure boot. So am I good to go?Tech questionSo I'm planning to install some linux to my gaming desktop(ryzen 5 7500f + rtx 4070 super) alongside the Windows 11 with secure boot.What I understood is that I could install opensuse while motherboard's secure boot is on.Is it right or I need to do another things to use secure boot? I heard that it becomes a lot trickier with nvidia card.
Migrated my home server to MicroOS (Bare Metal) + Podman Quadlets. Here is my build log & disaster recovery notes. Migrated my home server to MicroOS (Bare Metal) + Podman Quadlets. Here is my build log & disaster recovery notes.u/ramonvanraaij•14 days agoMigrated my home server to MicroOS (Bare Metal) + Podman Quadlets. Here is my build log & disaster recovery notes.MicroOShttps://ramon.vanraaij.eu/building-a-bulletproof-container-host-disaster-recovery/
Rubiks Cube timer cross-platform - Linux app desktop Rubiks Cube timer cross-platform - Linux app desktopu/DeviceRecent3456•18 days agoRubiks Cube timer cross-platform - Linux app desktop
[BTRFS] need help fixing broken BTRFS - header error [BTRFS] need help fixing broken BTRFS - header erroru/Cren•14 days ago[BTRFS] need help fixing broken BTRFS - header errorTech supportHi,two days ago I started my OpensuseTW as usual, to realise I was in read-only mode for (at least) the root partition. (Got error/notified when I tried using sudo in the terminal) This is the first time this happened to me after now roughly 2 years. Tried zeroing the logs(? sorry recalling from memory) as I had a dirty shutdown/power cut to no avail. I tried running Snapper with like any snapshot, dating back to the 15th of January. All of them having turning read-only sometimes after a couple of seconds/minutes.I ranbtrfs scrub start /dev/sdc2under Opensuse and SystemRescue. The following log was the output after scrubbing (# journalctl | grep btrfs) unlike other guides/tips/forums/ArchWiki The error I got didn't match their outputs in the slightestJan 29 21:17:35 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS info (device sdc2): scrub: started on devid 1 Jan 29 21:17:36 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS warning (device sdc2): tree block 401752064 mirror 1 has bad csum, has 0x8b9acfa6 want 0xca414d49 Jan 29 21:17:36 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS warning (device sdc2): tree block 401752064 mirror 1 has bad csum, has 0x8b9acfa6 want 0xca414d49 Jan 29 21:17:36 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS warning (device sdc2): tree block 401752064 mirror 1 has bad csum, has 0x8b9acfa6 want 0xca414d49 Jan 29 21:17:36 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS warning (device sdc2): tree block 401752064 mirror 1 has bad csum, has 0x8b9acfa6 want 0xca414d49 Jan 29 21:17:36 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS error (device sdc2): unable to fixup (regular) error at logical 401735680 on dev /dev/sdc2 physical 410124288 Jan 29 21:17:36 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS warning (device sdc2): header error at logical 401735680 on dev /dev/sdc2, physical 410124288: metadata leaf (level 0) in tree 123738177536 Jan 29 21:17:36 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS warning (device sdc2): header error at logical 401735680 on dev /dev/sdc2, physical 410124288: metadata leaf (level 0) in tree 165789696 Jan 29 21:17:36 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS error (device sdc2): unable to fixup (regular) error at logical 401735680 on dev /dev/sdc2 physical 410124288 Jan 29 21:17:36 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS warning (device sdc2): header error at logical 401735680 on dev /dev/sdc2, physical 410124288: metadata leaf (level 0) in tree 123738177536 Jan 29 21:17:36 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS warning (device sdc2): header error at logical 401735680 on dev /dev/sdc2, physical 410124288: metadata leaf (level 0) in tree 165789696 Jan 29 21:17:36 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS error (device sdc2): unable to fixup (regular) error at logical 401735680 on dev /dev/sdc2 physical 410124288 Jan 29 21:17:36 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS warning (device sdc2): header error at logical 401735680 on dev /dev/sdc2, physical 410124288: metadata leaf (level 0) in tree 123738177536 Jan 29 21:17:36 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS warning (device sdc2): header error at logical 401735680 on dev /dev/sdc2, physical 410124288: metadata leaf (level 0) in tree 165789696 Jan 29 21:17:36 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS error (device sdc2): unable to fixup (regular) error at logical 401735680 on dev /dev/sdc2 physical 410124288 Jan 29 21:17:36 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS warning (device sdc2): header error at logical 401735680 on dev /dev/sdc2, physical 410124288: metadata leaf (level 0) in tree 123738177536 Jan 29 21:17:36 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS warning (device sdc2): header error at logical 401735680 on dev /dev/sdc2, physical 410124288: metadata leaf (level 0) in tree 165789696 Jan 29 21:17:39 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS warning (device sdc2): tree block 401752064 mirror 2 has bad csum, has 0x8b9acfa6 want 0xca414d49 Jan 29 21:17:39 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS warning (device sdc2): tree block 401752064 mirror 2 has bad csum, has 0x8b9acfa6 want 0xca414d49 Jan 29 21:17:39 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS warning (device sdc2): tree block 401752064 mirror 2 has bad csum, has 0x8b9acfa6 want 0xca414d49 Jan 29 21:17:39 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS warning (device sdc2): tree block 401752064 mirror 2 has bad csum, has 0x8b9acfa6 want 0xca414d49 Jan 29 21:17:39 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS error (device sdc2): unable to fixup (regular) error at logical 401735680 on dev /dev/sdc2 physical 1483866112 Jan 29 21:17:39 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS warning (device sdc2): header error at logical 401735680 on dev /dev/sdc2, physical 1483866112: metadata leaf (level 0) in tree 123738177536 Jan 29 21:17:39 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS warning (device sdc2): header error at logical 401735680 on dev /dev/sdc2, physical 1483866112: metadata leaf (level 0) in tree 165789696 Jan 29 21:17:39 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS error (device sdc2): unable to fixup (regular) error at logical 401735680 on dev /dev/sdc2 physical 1483866112 Jan 29 21:17:39 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS warning (device sdc2): header error at logical 401735680 on dev /dev/sdc2, physical 1483866112: metadata leaf (level 0) in tree 123738177536 Jan 29 21:17:39 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS warning (device sdc2): header error at logical 401735680 on dev /dev/sdc2, physical 1483866112: metadata leaf (level 0) in tree 165789696 Jan 29 21:17:39 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS error (device sdc2): unable to fixup (regular) error at logical 401735680 on dev /dev/sdc2 physical 1483866112 Jan 29 21:17:39 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS warning (device sdc2): header error at logical 401735680 on dev /dev/sdc2, physical 1483866112: metadata leaf (level 0) in tree 123738177536 Jan 29 21:17:39 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS warning (device sdc2): header error at logical 401735680 on dev /dev/sdc2, physical 1483866112: metadata leaf (level 0) in tree 165789696 Jan 29 21:17:39 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS error (device sdc2): unable to fixup (regular) error at logical 401735680 on dev /dev/sdc2 physical 1483866112 Jan 29 21:17:39 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS warning (device sdc2): header error at logical 401735680 on dev /dev/sdc2, physical 1483866112: metadata leaf (level 0) in tree 123738177536 Jan 29 21:17:39 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS warning (device sdc2): header error at logical 401735680 on dev /dev/sdc2, physical 1483866112: metadata leaf (level 0) in tree 165789696 Jan 29 21:22:51 sysrescue kernel: BTRFS info (device sdc2): scrub: finished on devid 1 with status: 0My plan was to identifiy the borked files and, if needed, replace them. But I'm not so sure anymore. Ultima ratio of reinstalling is on the table, but apperently my /home/ drive also has errors, which I couldn't investigate yet. (Gonna check memory in the next couple of days)Edit/addendum:My RAM had one or two bytes in consistent addresses broken so corruption sept through the system. Changed RAM thanks to a spare kit from a family member. Redownloaded corrupted opensusetw iso and reinstalled root and boot for now.I was able to use my damaged /home/ drive for now and while reinstalling opensuse I was able to import my account and the majority of the settings. This is the first time I had to deal with something like this in that scale and I'm happy it worked out and I'm impressed by how smooth the reinstall was. If it wasn't for backend troubles at opensuses user repos I'd be where I was pre read-only incident in less than an hour.
How to switch from grub2-bls to grub2-efi (manual method) How to switch from grub2-bls to grub2-efi (manual method)u/JMarcosHP•21 days agoHow to switch from grub2-bls to grub2-efi (manual method)How to… !For the people who wants to switch from grub2-bls to grub2-efi this guide is for you.NOTE: If you are already using a system with LUKS2 and argon2 key derivation, please don't follow this guide yet until Grub 2.14 arrives in the main repository of your openSUSE flavor.This guide was tested in: TumbleweedFirst of all, start by creating the necessary grub2 btrfs subvolumes to exclude the modules from snapshots:# Create grub2 directory sudo mkdir -p /boot/grub2  # Create and mount both grub subvolumes (fstab and @ prefix handled automatically) sudo mksubvolume /boot/grub2/i386-pc sudo mksubvolume /boot/grub2/x86_64-efi  # If you use Selinux, restore the corresponding labels sudo restorecon -R /boot/grub2Install the necessary stuff for grub2-efi:sudo zypper in grub2 grub2-common grub2-branding-openSUSE grub2-i386-pc grub2-x86_64-efi grub2-snapper-plugin grub2-systemd-sleep-plugin mokutilRemove grub2-bls:sudo zypper rm grub2-x86_64-efi-blsRemovesdbootutil:sudo zypper rm --clean-deps -y sdbootutilAnd then set the variableLOADER_TYPE=togrub2-efiorgrub2depending your system, in/etc/sysconfig/bootloaderAdd the following cmdline to /etc/default/grub2:If you use apparmor, change it acordingly. Remove if you don't use any security module.GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="splash=silent resume=<device UUID or name> quiet security=selinux selinux=1 mitigations=auto"In the same file add the following variables at the very bottom (IMPORTANT, without this, the grub menu will fail to load)GRUB_BACKGROUND= GRUB_THEME=/boot/grub2/themes/openSUSE/theme.txt SUSE_BTRFS_SNAPSHOT_BOOTING="true" GRUB_USE_LINUXEFI="true" # Set it to "false" if your system is MBR GRUB_DISABLE_OS_PROBER="false" GRUB_ENABLE_CRYPTODISK="n" # Change this to "y" if you use LUKS encryption.Reinstall all your kernel packages:sudo zypper in -f kernel-default-<version>Remove the grub2-bls remaining crap from /boot/efisudo rm -rf /boot/efi/loader sudo rm -rf /boot/efi/opensuse-tumbleweed # or opensuse-slowrollUpdate your grub configuration:sudo grub2-mkconfig -o /boot/grub2/grub.cfgReinstall the bootloader:sudo update-bootloader --reinit  # For EFI systems only sudo shim-install --config-file=/boot/grub2/grub.cfg  # For MBR systems only sudo grub2-installAnd that's it. Try it first in a VM before switching your main system to grub2-efi or if you want to improve this guide.
I have problem with installation I have problem with installationu/SelfOk9623•1 mo. agoI have problem with installation
Noob activating hibernate in laptop Noob activating hibernate in laptopu/Confident-Dot-7642•1 mo. agoNoob activating hibernate in laptopTech questionI'm currently using Ubuntu and struggling to activate hibernation. Does OpenSuse have the option to configure the swap partition to automatically make it compatible with hibernation or any built in resources for activating it more easily? Would it be worth it switching distro?I just need a Linux distro that I can close my lid, suspend and eventually hibernate. Ubuntu is killing my laptop battery by never hibernating.
Codecs situation Codecs situationu/ciko2283•15 days agoCodecs situationHow to… ?How do you guys do codecs without vendor stuff attacking you every other update? I really want to switch to opensuse but that one little thing is making me leave every time. I dont want to think about package versions and vendors and that stuff, just let me play my videos...I do it with OPI and its great for a few days then it starts throwing a bunch of questions during updates and sometimes even cant find the required packages.No, i don't want to use flatpak.
Potential new user Potential new useru/tomsode•17 days agoPotential new userI'm pretty new to Linux (technical windows user for 30 years) but have read a lot of posts, watched a lot of youtubes and tested Fedora, CachyOs, PikaOs and EndevourOS for a couple of hours each.I'm now a theoretical expert on all things linux except the practical details ;)I know the basics and what separates most distros but its mostly about what are the upsides of each distro.Downsides are much harder to find...The reason I'm starting to look at openSuse for my next (last?) distro hop is that I would like a trustworthy and stable alternative but with mostly new packages and it looks like the best option.* PikaOs felt both risky and old since its based on Debian.* Fedora felt professional but a little boring and only major updates once per 6 months felt a bit slow* CachyOs worked great but felt risky* EndevourOs I liked that it had very few things by default and felt like a blank slate (without going to the extreme with arch or nixos) but obviously risky.The possible downsides I've found so far about openSuse is:* Less packages available compared to arch and its AUR - May not be an issue if all I need is there.* YAST looks useful but ugly and it seems to be on its way out without anything to fill its voidMy goal with Linux is basically having an option for my Windows 11 that keeps getting worse and has so many online dependencies now that its possible that one day its impossible to login and use anything.So far linux has treated me very well and the only downsides for me so far is no visual studio 2026 (haven't gotten used to Rider and vs code is good for AI stuff but not debugging).So based on all of this, any reasons why I shouldn't pick openSuse and stay with it for the next 30 years?
Grub2-BLS Grub2-BLSu/throttlemeister•12 days agoGrub2-BLSTech questionWhat is the reason for the introduction of grub2-bls? From what I have read on the wiki, it requires sdboot to be installed, at which point you already have a bootloader and bootmenu.Is it just so fancy themes can be installed and shown when booting and have your familiar `/boot/grub/grub.cfg` as usual? Cause it seems like everything else it adds over grub2 is exactly what you get when using sdboot. Including dynamic bootentries in the bootmenu.It appears to me it just adds another layer of complexity over sdboot in favor of familiarity and backward compatibility in a way of working.I am currently using sdboot and if there are rational reasons to use grub2-bls other than it is the default now, it's a quick switch as everything is already in place. What am I missing?
Getting 503 service unavailable when I go onto https://software.opensuse.org/ Getting 503 service unavailable when I go onto https://software.opensuse.org/u/EquivalentMap8477•14 days agoGetting 503 service unavailable when I go onto https://software.opensuse.org/Is anybody else getting this problem
Setting SDDM to run in Wayland on Tumbleweed? Setting SDDM to run in Wayland on Tumbleweed?u/todd_dayz•2 mo. agoSetting SDDM to run in Wayland on Tumbleweed?Tech supportHi, I’m trying to run SDDM with Wayland and not X11, I set DisplayServer in /etc/sddm.conf to “wayland” and now it boots into the TTY instead, is there anything else I need to do?
Is Slowroll ready? Is Slowroll ready?u/Substantial-Yam3769•27 days agoIs Slowroll ready?Hello, i wanna ask about the state of slowroll, as it is still marked as beta on openSUSE website. In the past i user tumbleweed, but i am not a fan of daily updates and slowroll seems perfect. But as it is beta, i am afraid it wont be stable enough, or that i will encounter some issues.
Is 318GB too much for the root partition on openSUSE Tumbleweed? Is 318GB too much for the root partition on openSUSE Tumbleweed?u/Kind-Jeweler929•2 mo. agoIs 318GB too much for the root partition on openSUSE Tumbleweed?Tech support
NAS config got way harder NAS config got way harderu/nohspamjose•15 days agoNAS config got way harderI just rebuilt a 2 bay Synology NAS with Synology Hybrid Raid (SHR) and want to share thePhotosdirectory across my LAN. In the old days (before I moved from Tumbleweed to Leap 16), I could use the YAST2 NAS client page - it packaged up all the settings I needed into a convenient wizard and it would, given a LAN IP find the NFS shares and even update/etc/fstabnicely.I can no longer do that, nor is there any compensating documentation or Cockpit equivalent, general web help is a drag to use as versions are not very useful at describing my scenario.I have worked out that I can access the share as root (where the UID & GID match between the client and the server) but I haven't found a clear explanation of how to do this for me on the NAS (greg) and me on my PC (also greg but different UID and group membership)I'm clutching at straws, assuming it's the IDs to blame. I don't know how to reliably design a solution that maintains current capabilitiesAny abstract explanation of the principles (assuming this is the right fix) would be great.
Setting keyboard-layout fails (SWAYwm) Setting keyboard-layout fails (SWAYwm)u/tagesleuchtrot•15 days agoSetting keyboard-layout fails (SWAYwm)Setting keyboard-layout fails (openSUSE)r/swaywm•15 days agoSetting keyboard-layout fails (openSUSE)[solved]insertedinput "keyboard" {xkb_layout dexkb_variant dvorak}to~/.config/sway/conf.d/keyboard-config.confsway loads without complaining but the layout remains unchanged.advice welcome :)EDIT:thanks to u/Murky_Character5437i changed the dir to "config.d" an it worked2upvotes·4comments
What happened to lovely Grub? What happened to lovely Grub?u/Level_Ad_2490•1 mo. agoWhat happened to lovely Grub?Tech supportHi!I wanted to install my friend opensuse.I use it as my main system.But???? Grub BLS??? Seriously? I was very angry because bad theme and not nice opensuse boot them and it did not found his windows Bootloader.I installed old Grub and removed BLS but there were problems like secure boot and the opensuse theme was cropped weird at bootup.Any fix?
OpenSUSE Leap: Are automatic sources upgrades possible? OpenSUSE Leap: Are automatic sources upgrades possible?u/LeapMuser•2 mo. agoOpenSUSE Leap: Are automatic sources upgrades possible?Tech questionI want to create a custom Linux image for my friends and family to install that is totally preconfigured with:driverscodecsapplicationssettingslibrariesthemeset ceteraI also do not want to bother them with constant updates, so I'm thinking of using either Debian or OpenSUSE Leap as a base. Ideally I'd go with OpenSUSE Leap since so much of what I want to implement are already the defaults here (namely Btrfs in the installer + preconfigured Snapper). Unfortunately, I don't believe there's a "Leap Stable" branch (à la Debian Stable) that will let Discover upgrade them to the next Leap release whenever that comes out. If I use Debian as a base, it's going to be aLOTof work for me, but Debiandoeslet me change the sources toDebian Stable,which is aHUGEadvantage to the end user as Discover will automatically update them to Debian 14, 15, and so on whenever those come out.Is there a way to make zypper automatically tune in to the latest Leap version, or am I going to have to furnish Debian?
Has anyone using opensuse Tumbleweed used this Update Tool: TopGrade? Has anyone using opensuse Tumbleweed used this Update Tool: TopGrade?u/TxTechnician•2 mo. agoHas anyone using opensuse Tumbleweed used this Update Tool: TopGrade?Tech questionhttps://software.opensuse.org/package/topgrade?locale=enhttps://github.com/topgrade-rs/topgradeFound this just now.  And it seems like a nice solution to an annoying problem (not a big one, just annoying).... updating.Just curious if anyone has used it.
GRUB2-BLS broken resolution/visual glitches GRUB2-BLS broken resolution/visual glitchesu/taryus•2 mo. agoGRUB2-BLS broken resolution/visual glitchesTech supportInstalled TW recently and I haven't been able to find a fix for this. GRUB boots in a very low resolution, and there are some weird graphical artifacts as some others have reported.The main thing bothering me is the resolution. I've tried many things including adjusting the kernel parameters (adding video=[resolution], etc.) but nothing seems to work. I've also tried to search and all I can find is people with the same issue, unresolved.The only "fix" for the resolution at least is for me to boot into the BIOS first, but that's definitely not worth doing regularly... maybe only if I need to be able to actually read the description of the snapshots!Thank you!
Gamemode fails to set Governor Gamemode fails to set Governoru/jungfred•2 mo. agoGamemode fails to set GovernorTech questionI've recently installedFeral's Gamemodefrom official suse repo.After moving the default gamemode.ini to /etc and testing withgamemode -tit results with errors:gamemoded -t : Loading config Loading config file [/etc/gamemode.ini] Config: Value ignored [general] desiredprof=performance : Running tests  :: Basic client tests :: Passed  :: Dual client tests gamemode request succeeded and is active Quitting by request... :: Passed  :: Gamemoderun and reaper thread tests ...Waiting for child to quit... ...Waiting for reaper thread (reaper_frequency set to 5 seconds)... :: Passed  :: Supervisor tests :: Passed  :: Feature tests ::: Verifying CPU governor setting ERROR: Governor was not set to performance (was actually powersave)! ::: Failed! ::: Verifying Scripts ::: Passed (no scripts configured to run) ::: Verifying GPU Optimisations ::: Passed (gpu optimisations not configured to run) ::: Verifying renice ::: Passed (no renice configured) ::: Verifying ioprio ::: Passed ERROR: :: Failed! : Tests Failed!All tests are passed except the Governor (should be the most important i guess)!sudo gamemode -t doesn't work either.(btw when i'm ingame, the mangohud shows that gamemode is on)How can i get gamemode to pass all tests?EDIT: Solved after adding user to group gamemode
is MESA from packman still mandatory to get hardware accelerated video ? is MESA from packman still mandatory to get hardware accelerated video ?u/marozsas•1 mo. agois MESA from packman still mandatory to get hardware accelerated video ?I was told, years ago, to get MESA packages from packman because they have hardware acceleration code.I am not sure, but looks like openSUSE can not distribute hardware accelerated versions because licensing issues.Is this still true in 2026 ?I am running tumbleweed and AMD card (RX 6600)
Tunbleweed, MicroOS or Aeon for Daily Desktop? Tunbleweed, MicroOS or Aeon for Daily Desktop?u/a-very-nsfw•15 days agoTunbleweed, MicroOS or Aeon for Daily Desktop?Im usef to use Tumbleweed back in the days and now Im thinking switch back from Fedora. I dont Tumbleween and all openSUSE flavors are rocksolid but I hate bload. So which openSUSE flavor you recommend me?Check list:- Install minimal system with GNOME desktop without bloat.- Podman, distrobox and flatpakWhat are the main differences between MircoOS and Aeon/Kalpa?
Black screen when using KDE breeze dark theme Black screen when using KDE breeze dark themeu/RndmNm939•2 mo. agoBlack screen when using KDE breeze dark themeTech supportHey folks,new to openSUSE TW (from fedora btw) and I simply love it! But one thing is really bugging me: Everytime I try to select the global "breeze dark" theme in the settings, the whole KDE session shows a black screen after restart. Its the same in X11 and wayland and this problem occurs even on a complete fresh install with nothing else setup.Update: Just to make this post a bit more relevant: My Notebook is equipped with an Intel Ultra 7 258V which seems to be the root cause. Installing the libvulkan_intel package fixes this issue. Thanks tou/llustrious-Ball8556 !
Conky, HDD temperature monitoring with smartctl and Sudo? Conky, HDD temperature monitoring with smartctl and Sudo?u/tobinfrost77•2 mo. agoConky, HDD temperature monitoring with smartctl and Sudo?Conky, HDD temperature monitoring with smartctl and Sudo?r/buildapc•2 mo. agoConky, HDD temperature monitoring with smartctl and Sudo?Conky, HDD temperature monitoring with smartctl and Sudo?Hey, I am trying to integrate HDD temp monitoring on conky, however the hddtemp program isn't available on SuSE 16.0. Using smartctl however, does return a result:USER@HOSTNAME:~$ sudo smartctl -A /dev/sdb | awk 'NR==18' | cut -c 39-41 42Its work in terminal but when paste to conky config its doesnt work.Is there any way to integrate this into conky?
I am looking for feedback from users of Nvidia GPUs in laptops. I am looking for feedback from users of Nvidia GPUs in laptops.u/cl0v3r_13•2 mo. agoI am looking for feedback from users of Nvidia GPUs in laptops.Tech questionHello everyone, I'm trying to transition to Linux on my Lenovo Legion 5 15IAH7H, which has an Nvidia GPU, specifically the RTX 3060. I have previously installed Debian, Fedora, and Ubuntu, but with all of them I have had the problem that when I install the Nvidia driver, whether proprietary or open source, when I put the laptop to sleep, either by closing the lid or putting it to sleep from the desktop, when the system wakes up it freezes, either leaving the screen black or showing a black screen with the desktop cursor, forcing me to shut it down.OpenSUSE is my last hope for transitioning to Linux on this laptop, as this problem is the reason I am still using Windows. Any feedback is welcome and appreciated.
How to setup os-updates How to setup os-updatesu/jdrch•2 mo. agoHow to setup os-updatesHow to… !Writing this guide because I was setting it up myself for the 1st time on a fresh Leap 16.0 installation earlier and couldn't findcomplete(note the emphasis) instructions anywhere. Ideally this should function likeunattended-upgradesdoes on Debian(-based distros).Step 0: Read thedocsYeah I hate this step too, but the documentation is minimal and reading it is necessary to understand what follows.Step 1: Install os-update# zypper install os-updateStep 2: Configure os-updateOpen the/usr/share/os-update/os-update.conffile. If you agree with the settings shown there, skip to the next step.If you want to change any of the settings, edit the/etc/os-update.conffile to include your desired changed lines only. So, for example,/etc/os-update.confshould contain#UPDATE_CMD=dup #REBOOT_CMD=rebootif those are the/usr/share/os-update/os-update.confvalues you want.Step 3: Configure os-update.timerIf you'd rather just start the service and haveos-updateset its own schedule, skip to the next step.This is where you determine when you wantos-updateto run. Edit/etc/systemd/system/os-update.timer. Customize the content based onthis documentation. Mine looks like:[Unit] Description="Run os-update daily at 0300 even if machine was offline for previous attempt"  [Timer] OnCalendar=Mon..Sun *-*-* 03:00:00 Persistent=trueStep 4: Reload systemd configIf you skipped the previous step, skip to the next step.This will force systemd to pick up any/etc/systemd/system/os-update.timerchange made in the previous step:# systemctl daemon-reloadStep 5: Enable and start os-update.timer# systemctl enable os-update.timer # systemctl start os-update.timerStep 6: Check the os-update.timer config# systemctl list-timers os-update.timerThe value in theNEXTcolumn should match the intent in/etc/systemd/system/os-update.timer.Hope this helps anyone else!
would you recommend openSuse to someone with no linux expirience? would you recommend openSuse to someone with no linux expirience?u/SnooShortcuts3681•2 mo. agowould you recommend openSuse to someone with no linux expirience?Tech questionMy dad has asked me if I would help him install linux on his machine. I personally have been using linux for a while now but Im not really sure what distro to try. I thought about Fedora, but In my expirience I had problems with Nvidia drivers, the codecs and having to add aditional repos (RPM Fusion), I think it would just make it seem more complex and more confusing than it really is. So then I thought about openSuse (tumbleweed), do you think it would be good for someone with no linux expirience?Also: I don't want Linux Mint
Updates of Leap and Leap Micro Updates of Leap and Leap Microu/Swed-Tech•2 mo. agoUpdates of Leap and Leap MicroI am planning a production environment based on openSUSE Leap Micro. I will run my own developed software on it and it seems contain all software needed in the base system for my stuff to work properly.Problem is that I cannot build it on the Micro as the devel_basis pattern and some does not seem to be available for easy install. Instead I will have a "ordinary" Leap as build-server where the devel_basis pattern is trivial.For this to work it is essential  that both systems software have same or very close to same versions of some dependency packages from the OS. Currently I run on ubuntu and the server failed to start after an update earlier this week so I had to update the build-server and make a new release for things to work. I want to avoid this in the future and I will take some additional steps for this.But one thing I need to verify is if an update of leap and leap micro at the same time will result in the same version of common packages (leap will most likely have packages that micro does not)? Do they both use that same software sources?Are there any other known concept I should be aware of when building software for the Leap Micro - it is designed not to be a build server.
Broke my installation Broke my installationu/Jantxd•2 mo. agoBroke my installationTech supportHi everyone.I started using openSUSE Tumbleweed a few months ago, and almost everything was working fine.Yesterday (all my troubles seemed so far away), I was trying to disable autologin for my user (the only user on the system). In YaST, I checked the option “Disable login”, thinking that this was related to autologin.After rebooting, I couldn’t log in with my user, so I entered recovery mode.Unfortunately, I don’t think I handled the situation very well after that.First, I tried to unlock the user password:sudo passwd -u {user}Then I changed the password:sudo passwd {user}I also ran this command to check the user (I didn’t really understand the output; it showed a long alphanumeric string):sudo grep {user} /etc/shadowAfter changing the password, I tried to log in again, but it still didn’t work.As a last attempt:In recovery mode, I launched YaSTWent to Accounts, and saw that “Disable login” was unchecked for my userCreated a new user to try to “solve the problem”After that, the system no longer boots.What I see now:The “Gigabyte” logo from the motherboardThe boot menu to select the OS (I also have Linux Mint on another drive)Then the “Gigabyte” logo again with the "Open suse Tumbleweed"And that’s all. No video output after that. The screen says “Entering sleep mode” but don't turn off (and repeat), looks like the video signal is intermittentThat’s my problem.Any help would be appreciated.After writing this, I’m going to check if I can still enter recovery mode.
How I finally fixed the display/banding issues on my new Intel Arc B580 (Battlemage) – The openSUSE “Magic” How I finally fixed the display/banding issues on my new Intel Arc B580 (Battlemage) – The openSUSE “Magic”u/sadece_hickimse•2 mo. agoHow I finally fixed the display/banding issues on my new Intel Arc B580 (Battlemage) – The openSUSE “Magic”How I finally fixed the display/banding issues on my new Intel Arc B580 (Battlemage) – The openSUSE “Magic”Hi everyone,I wanted to share a specific experience I had with the new Intel Arc B580 (Battlemage). I’ve been waiting for this card for a year, but when I first got it, I was a bit disappointed. I was seeing weird "grain" and "color banding" in high-quality videos (BT.2020), especially during transitions from bright to dark scenes. I thought the film was bad or the drivers were just too immature.I have 3 SSDs and I’m a bit of a distro-hopper, so I tested everything: Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Fedora, Arch... You name it. They all "recognized" the card, but the image quality was still off.Then I triedopenSUSE Tumbleweed, and that's where things got interesting.Unlike other distros, openSUSE's Discover (KDE) immediately notified me about a"GSC/OptionROM"and"Firmware"update for the GPU. I’ve seen firmware update prompts before on other distros, but they usually did nothing.This time was different. openSUSE actually managed theUEFI Capsule Updateproperly. It even temporarily messed with my BIOS boot order (changing it from USB-first to Hard Disk-first) just to make sure the firmware was written to the card's EEPROM during the reboot.The Result:After the update and moving toKernel 6.18(which has huge improvements for thexedriver), the difference is night and day. That "grainy" look is gone. Color transitions are now crystal clear.The most interesting part? Since this was a hardware/firmware update (OptionROM), when I switched back to my other OS (AerynOS), the image quality was improved there too! openSUSE basically acted as a "hardware repair tool" for my B580.TL;DR:If you have a Battlemage card and you're seeing color banding or poor video quality on Linux, don't just wait for kernel updates. Try openSUSE Tumbleweed just to see if it triggers an OptionROM/Firmware update via UEFI. It fixed my hardware-level color processing issues that other distros couldn't touch.Intel Arc B580 is a beast, but it definitely needs that firmware love!
Agama, Myrlyn and Cockpit for Tumbleweed Agama, Myrlyn and Cockpit for Tumbleweedu/88rosomak•2 mo. agoAgama, Myrlyn and Cockpit for TumbleweedWhen will Agama, Myrlyn, and Cockpit become the default standard for Tumbleweed?
kernel upgrade 6.17=>6.18 broke my Tumbleweed kernel upgrade 6.17=>6.18 broke my Tumbleweedu/RevolutionaryHigh•2 mo. agokernel upgrade 6.17=>6.18 broke my Tumbleweedmounts were failing with “unknown filesystem”;auditd was failingroot was locked so no console accessThe culprit?`security=selinux selinux=1` was added to my kernel boot line without any warning or consideration.Why?What the hell, suse? My setenforce was always 0
How to install tumbleweed How to install tumbleweedu/Flat_Wasabi8999•16 days agoHow to install tumbleweedI had accidently installed fedora kde on my hdd but i don't mind it staying there I do alr have a dual boot i wanted to install kde tumbleweed I have no usb and i gave a 256 gb partition which is empty fedora kde is on my hdd but I have an empty nvme partition and i wanna get tumbleweed kdeComing UpLiveAMA Finished·Feb 18, 2026, 2:55 AM
Always forgotten. Not today! Always forgotten. Not today!u/xanaddams•16 days agoAlways forgotten. Not today!
OpenSUSE kernel panic not syncing vfs OpenSUSE kernel panic not syncing vfsu/Calm_Reaction_9631•26 days agoOpenSUSE kernel panic not syncing vfsTech support
pam error (I think) pam error (I think)u/nohspamjose•2 mo. agopam error (I think)I just installed Leap 16 on a small PC for my father-in-law (f-i-l), upgrading from a well out of date 15.2 or 15.3. It's set up for KDE Plasma WaylandI am used to Tumbleweed at home on my own systemThe install went OK but I'm really not used to BTRFS and I tried two things which may have upset the state of things.I tried adding myself as an admin user (GUI) but there wasn't an option to create a home directory, so I created one and gave it the right ownership `me:me` and permissions `755`I had copied the original content of my f-i-l's home directory to an empty XFS formatted partition before the install. After the install I edited `/etc/fstab` to `#` comment out the BTRFSu/homemount line and change the mount point of the partition with the content to `/home/<f-i-l's username>/`Now the login screen pops up with the right username. I put in the right password. It goes, as if it's going to login but after a few seconds just returns to the login screenI can go to a tty screen and successfully  log in with my f-i-l's name & p/w, then I can use `startplasma-wayland` to get into the GUI. It just doesn't allow me to log on from the GUIThen `sudo`ing as `root`, I ran `journalctl -e` and saw the following, possibly relevant entries, in red:`Pam_kwallet5-kwalletd: user home directory does not exist` even though with dolphin I can navigate to `/home/<f-i-l's username>/``Pam_kwallet5 (sddm:session): pam_kwallet5: fail into creating the hash`Is there a subtle fix or do I have to reinstall but more carefully?(I want the home directory separate from BTRFS because I'm used to installing the system without overwriting the /home/ directories and I don't understand BTRFS well enough to be sure I can achieve that - I'm happier sticking with what I know, in this case.Thanks & Help!?
Suse Linux 15 SP7 KDE Suse Linux 15 SP7 KDEu/intraserver•2 mo. agoSuse Linux 15 SP7 KDE
Shortcut to shutdown? Shortcut to shutdown?u/Max_318•16 days agoShortcut to shutdown?Hi! I’ve been trying to create a keyboard shortcut to turn off my Tumbleweed pc, but I can’t figure out the right command. Did anyone tried this? The “sudo shutdown now” dosnt work.
This Christmas I gave myself a new distro This Christmas I gave myself a new distrou/Rukuss1•2 mo. agoThis Christmas I gave myself a new distro
I'm just here for the chameleon I'm just here for the chameleonu/jooxii•2 mo. agoI'm just here for the chameleonIf I had to sum it up, that's probably why I'm using openSUSE Tumbleweed.Year ago, I played around with Linux for very light server duties - never self installed, always hosted. I tried Ubuntu, and thought it was cool, but more as a weekend project.  I loved the chameleon (literally, it's adorable) and heard great things about Yast, so I tried Suse - but again, Linux couldn't be my main OS at the time.I recently got a Thinkpad with Ubuntu preinstalled. It's come quite a long way! A real Windows competitor.  But the geeky little lizard kept calling. Loving Tumbleweed! A little confused about snapper, but it's already undone a bad update/user error; Yast is leaving, but still super useful, and the general layout, attitude and up to date features are fantastic. Plus you get an adorable lizard logo.  I hope more people try it!
Do a minimal KDE installation without breaking it at the start. Do a minimal KDE installation without breaking it at the start.u/JMarcosHP•14 days agoDo a minimal KDE installation without breaking it at the start.How to… !Hey folks, I just recorded a video on how to install a minimal KDE desktop in TW.Do you want to exclude some stuff, but after finishing the installation, you end with a broken system? Well this video can help you to do a minimal installation without breaking it.It includes some additional configurations like adding your user to the wheel group, some sudo adjustements, optional codecs if you want native AMD HW Accel, install flatpak apps without a password, ZRAM configuration, etc. If you need hibernation support, skip the ZRAM step and enable a swap partition with RAM size in the guided setup.You can complement this minimal installation with LinuxNext's gaming guide to have a fully configured system.Hope this helps someone.Link here:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vVHJmi9LUOY
openSUSE tumbleweed + GNOME openSUSE tumbleweed + GNOMEu/DifferentTerm4265•23 days agoopenSUSE tumbleweed + GNOMEopenSUSE tumbleweed + GNOMEr/desktops•23 days agoopenSUSE tumbleweed + GNOME4upvotes
Codec doubts Codec doubtsu/Alvaroms25•13 days agoCodec doubtsHello! I'm looking to move from my current arch setup to tumbleweed, and i know it doesn't come with preinstalled codecs by default.As i've read, the easiest way to install codecs is to just use "opi codecs", but that adds Packman repos, and the wiki says those can and will cause problems when updating(https://en.opensuse.org/SDB:Installing_codecs_from_Packman_repositories), but how often in reality?Also, tinkering in a vm, i saw there are multiple mirrors and i get prompted to select one at first install, which is recommended?Also, i don't think this question is really a question, but is Packman safe repo? (I assume it is cuz it even has a YaST option to add)
OpenSuse TW on multiboot system OpenSuse TW on multiboot systemu/Financial-Horse6830•17 days agoOpenSuse TW on multiboot systemHow to… !Hello, everyone!This is my hardware:- SSD 1: 500 GB with Windows 11- SSD 2: 120 GB with Fedora 43 KDE btfrs- SSD 3: 120 GB with CachyOS KDE btfrs- SSD 4: 120 GB newThe current boot manager is rEFInd, installed on CachyOs.For various reasons, I prefer to keep Windows and the two Linux distributions, but I would like to install OpenSuse Tumbleweed on SSD 4 to use as my main OS and to manage, via boot (which boot loader is most suitable?) the entire multi-boot system and, if possible, the snapshots of all three Linux distros.Is this idea feasible? Are there any drawbacks?How should I install OpenSuse?Thanks in advance to anyone who responds.
The Chamelon Experience The Chamelon Experienceu/Local-Thing-9944•2 mo. agoThe Chamelon ExperienceEditorialhttps://sakethpathike.github.io/blog/tumbleweed-experience
How do I create boot entry for my windows 11 installation when using grub-bls? How do I create boot entry for my windows 11 installation when using grub-bls?u/SpicyBananaa•18 days agoHow do I create boot entry for my windows 11 installation when using grub-bls?How to… ?I am not sure if this is correct place to ask this question, but my experience with grub-bls has been that only opensuse (tumbleweed, not sure about leap) is using grub-bls as default bootloader.So how do I add bootentry to my grub menu when using grub-bls if I understood correctly using grub-mkconfig togeher with os-prober doesn't work anymore. I know that entries are now stored in separate config files (I think they were called type 1#s or something like that)  in /boot/efi/loader/entries but I couldn't find proper documentation for writing config file in there and snapper added ones were too different for me to parse what is actually required so in addition to help it would also be nice if someone could point me to proper documentation (correct me if I am wrong but there is no man page for this kind of stuff like there is for fstab)?As additional note I added config file and it showed up in YaST bootloader tool but it didn't show up in grub boot menu when I rebooted. I also tried updating all entries with "sdbootutil update-all-entries" command but got no luck with that.Thank you for your help beforehand.
How do you deal with temporary hiccups in Tumbleweed? How do you deal with temporary hiccups in Tumbleweed?u/fstephany•13 days agoHow do you deal with temporary hiccups in Tumbleweed?I'm currently experiencing an issue withBluetooth headsets.Sometimes ago, it was an issue inH264 videothat prevented me to do video calls for a fewweeks.While I understand that a rolling distro will always face this kind of hiccups, I would like to know how users deal with them?Do you force a working previous software version and regularly check the bug tracker to know when you can update?
Best way to update? Best way to update?u/Max_318•18 days agoBest way to update?I’m a new user (running Slowroll) and I noticed that I can update the system with the Yast Update gui, with the Discover app and with sudo zypper refresh && update. Sometimes one option shows updates available and the others not. What am I missing?(I know, its a basic question, but I expected yast to show the same updates available as running a command and it didn’t).
Kalpa in Virtualbox Kalpa in Virtualboxu/hornetster•2 mo. agoKalpa in VirtualboxTech questionAnyone successfully running Kalpa in VirtualBox?Trying to do this, installed 'mostly' OK, but always locks up shortly after logging in.Haven't been able to get the guest additions installed...Thanks.
openSUSE (TW) lab iximiuz playground now available openSUSE (TW) lab iximiuz playground now availableu/e-Minguez•25 days agoopenSUSE (TW) lab iximiuz playground now availableNewshttps://labs.iximiuz.com/playgrounds/opensuse-tumbleweed
May you all have a peaceful season May you all have a peaceful seasonu/OutrageousDisplay403•2 mo. agoMay you all have a peaceful seasonMay you all have a peaceful seasonr/openSUSE_Slowroll•2 mo. agoMay you all have a peaceful season27upvotes·4comments
Using Different Window Rules Per Screen Rotation in KDE Using Different Window Rules Per Screen Rotation in KDEu/Miserable-School-665•2 mo. agoUsing Different Window Rules Per Screen Rotation in KDEHow to… ?
What can I do with my extra RAM? What can I do with my extra RAM?u/Max_318•22 days agoWhat can I do with my extra RAM?Tech questionI’m using less than a quarter of my total RAM… is there a way I can use it to run faster the system? I feel its a waste otherwise.
Turn on wired controller on boot Turn on wired controller on bootu/WindDracoon•2 mo. agoTurn on wired controller on bootHow to… !Back when I used Linux Mint my wired xbox controller automatically turned on when I booted up my PC, but with openSUSE I have to manually pull out the cable and put it back on to turn it on. Is there a way to turn it on automatically on boot?
Planning to change from W11 to OpenSUSE, any tips? Planning to change from W11 to OpenSUSE, any tips?u/Hulluhullo•2 mo. agoPlanning to change from W11 to OpenSUSE, any tips?How to… ?Hi there, Merry Christmas for all and a happy new year for everyone firstly and my question here goes beyond the FAQ, do you have any tips that might help that are not included there? Bear in mind I'm new to linux overall but I'm willing to fail and try again if anything goes wrong and wish to dive head first to really learn about it.Edit: looking the comments i feel is worth mentioning I'm doing this with my notebook but i do hava desktop for general purposes so I'm not afraid to fully replace and really dive into it as i want to transform it into a learning place for me, but some of you are pointing out some good points regarding different and easier distros, so I'll look into that for sure
What do I need to do on Tumbleweed to get all steam games to work? What do I need to do on Tumbleweed to get all steam games to work?u/Jimmeh20•28 days agoWhat do I need to do on Tumbleweed to get all steam games to work?Tech supportI am using an nvidia gpu and Intel cpu if that helps.A while back I tried Tumbleweed and I loved a lot of things about it. The one thing that made me leave was that some steam games would not run well such as Persona 4 Golden. It would be very stuttery and drop to 1 fps after the first cutscene.Is there anything I need to install to get it to run smooth? I tried switching to Proton Experimental in the steam config and also tried GE Proton and neither seemed to help.Any advice?
Joplin Joplinu/luminous_sp•2 mo. agoJoplinHello everyone.Joplin It won't start.launchProcess: failed to execvp:xdg-settingsSentry: Initialized with autoUploadCrashDumps: falseHow can I fix it?Thanks.
How do I ignore an expired GPG key while installing a package? How do I ignore an expired GPG key while installing a package?u/nerd_rage_is_upon_us•2 mo. agoHow do I ignore an expired GPG key while installing a package?Tech supportSo my package is failing to install because mongodb 4.2's signing key expired in 2023. Refreshing the repo isn't letting me acquire a new one.I need to temporarily ignore this expirion and let the package install so that I can recover a legacy program (unifi controller).I forgot to take a backup before migrating to a new version and unfortunately apparently the old mongodb version cannot be upgraded to a new one on the fly, which means that I can't load my package.error: Key 4b7c549a058f8b6b (MongoDB 4.2 Release Signing Key <packaging@mongodb.com>) expired on 2023-04-18 02:16:30 warning: /var/cache/zypp/packages/mongodb42/RPMS/mongodb-org-server-4.2.25-1.suse15.x86_64.rpm: Header V4 RSA/SHA256 Signature, key ID 058f8b6b: NOTTRUSTED error: Key 4b7c549a058f8b6b (MongoDB 4.2 Release Signing Key <packaging@mongodb.com>) expired on 2023-04-18 02:16:30         package mongodb-org-server-4.2.25-1.suse15.x86_64 does not verify: Header V4 RSA/SHA256 Signature, key ID 058f8b6b: NOTTRUSTEDI triedzypper --no-gpg-checksandzypper in --allow-unsigned-rpmbut neither seems to work. The latter not working makes sense since the package is signed. However I'm stumped as to why zypper is still insisting on rpm integrity when--no-gpg-checksis enabled.
bind: address already in use bind: address already in useu/xWizardux•2 mo. agobind: address already in useI am trying to install godoxy agent on an OpenSUSE machine but keep getting the following error:godoxy-agent  | 12-24 16:42 INF server started addr=:8890 proto=https godoxy-agent  | 12-24 16:42 INF Docker socket listening on: 10.0.0.15:8890 godoxy-agent  | 12-24 16:42 FTL failed to listen on port error="listen tcp 10.0.0.15:8890: bind: address already in use" server=DockerThe composed I used which worked fine on a server running Ubuntu:services:    agent:     image: "ghcr.io/yusing/godoxy-agent:latest"     container_name: godoxy-agent     restart: always     network_mode: host # do not change this     environment:       DOCKER_SOCKET: "/var/run/docker.sock"       RUNTIME: "docker"       AGENT_NAME: "Square"       AGENT_PORT: "8890"       AGENT_CA_CERT: "------redacted--------"       AGENT_SSL_CERT: "------redacted--------"       # use agent as a docker socket proxy: [host]:port       # set LISTEN_ADDR to enable (e.g. 127.0.0.1:2375)       LISTEN_ADDR: 10.0.0.15:8890       POST: false       ALLOW_RESTARTS: false       ALLOW_START: false       ALLOW_STOP: false       AUTH: false       BUILD: false       COMMIT: false       CONFIGS: false       CONTAINERS: false       DISTRIBUTION: false       EVENTS: true       EXEC: false       GRPC: false       IMAGES: false       INFO: false       NETWORKS: false       NODES: false       PING: true       PLUGINS: false       SECRETS: false       SERVICES: false       SESSION: false       SWARM: false       SYSTEM: false       TASKS: false       VERSION: true       VOLUMES: false     volumes:       - /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock       - ./volume/data:/app/data:z     security_opt:       - label=disableThe only thing I changed here issecurity_optdue to SELinux.I checked if something is using the port:> sudo ss -tulpn | grep :8890 >What might be causing this to fail on OpenSUSE server?
Best Virtual Keyboard (OSK) ON Wayland Best Virtual Keyboard (OSK) ON Waylandu/Miserable-School-665•2 mo. agoBest Virtual Keyboard (OSK) ON WaylandNew stuffI’ve found this really nice and easily customizable virtual keyboard. Only problem being its an .py file and nothing more, its not recgonized by KDE. So you have to manually launch from taskbar, but still way better than maliit in my opinion. (Originally its English, you can set color and transparancy)Gİthub:vboardIf you have own sugeestions, it would be nice to hear.
Problem with booting OpenSUSE Tumbleweed after disconnecting a drive Problem with booting OpenSUSE Tumbleweed after disconnecting a driveu/tockata•2 mo. agoProblem with booting OpenSUSE Tumbleweed after disconnecting a driveHey guys,I have a problem with booting my OpenSUSE Tumbleweed installation after disconnecting one of my drives.My PC has several hdds and ssd/nvmes.OpenSUSE is installed on m2 SATA disk /not on nvme/. I have also another Linux and Windows on other drives. All OS have their bootloader installed on their hdd/sdd.I've disconnected one of the drives /not the OpenSUSE one/ for a while to connect a DVD writer in his place, and after that moment I can't boot OpenSUSE. The other Linux and Windows boot without issues.After I finished my work with the DVD writer, a switched back to the initial configuration, but still cannot boot Opensuse...The OpenSUSE installation is encrypted and after booting it asks for the passphrase, successfully unlocks and shows the boot menu. I can select the OpenSUSE option but after waiting for a while to load the KDE it just shows some error in the terminal with suggestion to check the logs.Does anyone have idea how to fix it? I guess somehow the disk identification have changed when I disconnected the other disk...
What is your experience with Patroni for Postgresql replication and auto recovery - Suse 12 SP5 Enterprise Server? What is your experience with Patroni for Postgresql replication and auto recovery - Suse 12 SP5 Enterprise Server?u/Artistic-Injury-9386•2 mo. agoWhat is your experience with Patroni for Postgresql replication and auto recovery - Suse 12 SP5 Enterprise Server?If replica or replicas go offline, how efficient was auto recovery/self healing for you
openSuSE fresh install shutdown error openSuSE fresh install shutdown erroru/adecareddit•18 days agoopenSuSE fresh install shutdown errorTech support
Ungoogled chromium Ungoogled chromiumu/Mention-One•17 days agoUngoogled chromiumHi there, I'm using Ungoogled Chromium as my main browser but recently I'm trying to use KeepassXC as password manager and discovered that the flatpak version of the browsers are in general not supported.I've searched on OBS but It looks like the package is not maintened anymore.I can use chromium but I like the idea of the ungoogled one 🤣
A Merry Christmas 2025, from the Packaging Team! A Merry Christmas 2025, from the Packaging Team!u/martinjungblut•2 mo. agoA Merry Christmas 2025, from the Packaging Team!Hello everyone!Keeping up with our tradition, the Packaging team at SUSE has prepared a little surprise for our beloved community.This year we have an interactive game of bingo for you. The goal is to find a package inopenSUSE:FactoryinOBSthat fits the requirement on each card.Once you have at least one bingo (meaning one complete row, column or diagonal) you can open an issue in the repository with your answers filled in the template.Find the bingo board and instructions here.Happy holidays and puzzling from the Packaging Team!Have a lot of fun!
Adding a second GPU (NVIDIA) Adding a second GPU (NVIDIA)u/UnassumingDrifter•2 mo. agoAdding a second GPU (NVIDIA)How to… ?So I've got Tumbleweed working on my backup server.  It's a Threadripper 5955wx with Radeon RX5700 graphics card.  I installedplexmediaservernatively and made sure transcoding was enabled, and selected the AMD graphics card.  Unfortunately, every time I transcode something, it doesn't show(hw)so it's doing CPU transcode (admittedly there's barely any cpu load).  I'd like to get GPU transcode working, and it should work, but it doesn't.  So I'd like to add an old 1050 I have laying around.  Is there anything I need to be aware of before doing this?  Is this asking for trouble?  I want to KEEP my 5700XT as my display adapter and just add the 1050 for transcoding.Any tips on how I might do this?  Will Tumbleweed notice the new hardware and on my firstzypper dupjust grab the NVIDIA drivers?  Given it's a 10-series I'm guessing it'll need the Nouveau drivers as this is now an "unsupported" card.  Any sage wisdom would be appreciated as I don't want to blow this machine up, it is my backup server, it just has a lot of untapped power and thought I'd move my Plex server off my Synology NAS (with an underwhelming CPU)EDIT:  As a follow up I can confirm installing Plex natively doesn't support hardware transcoding.  From what I've been told it has to do with the codecs and as a longtime Tumbleweed user I'm not suprised.  Soooo...  I read that the docker version has everything built in and really I like the idea of using docker because it'll make my install more portable (for moving around to different hardware without having to re-analyze my entire library).  Soooo, I installed the docker container and it was pretty easy-peasy.  Went in, and enabled transcoding and set my AMD RX5700 as the target (my Threadripper doesn't have an iGPU).  I fired up a 10-bit HDR encoded 4k video and started playing it, downsampling to 1080p and my GPU (which is usually at 0% because I'm never logged in graphically, only through ssh) was going between 1% and 2%.  I can confirm it showedhwunder the transcode.  I tried a couple different transcodes and they all went very similar.  Ohh, this was while my CPU was between 30%-70% re-analyzing my library.  No issues.  ~ 1gb/s background action going on as my media is on a different device (both are on 10gbe wired).tl;dr - Don't use native install, use the docker install.  AND - AMD transcoding appears to be solid.  I'm not sure how many encoders / decoders it has so not sure if I'll hit a wall at some point but I rarely have more than one stream going anyway.
While openSUSE forgetting how useful YasT TUI was, Solus publish his TUI package manager While openSUSE forgetting how useful YasT TUI was, Solus publish his TUI package manageru/rafaellinuxuser•18 days agoWhile openSUSE forgetting how useful YasT TUI was, Solus publish his TUI package managerSolseek - TUI Package Manager v0.9.0 Releaser/SolusProject•22 days agoSolseek - TUI Package Manager v0.9.0 ReleasePushed an update this week. Relatively small update, but does come with the ability to add custom updates.It is currently in the Unstable repo and will be pushed during the next sync to stable.Release Announcement:https://github.com/clintre/solseek/discussions/3326upvotes·7comments
Cannot install Tumbleweed Cannot install Tumbleweedu/EquivalentMap8477•18 days agoCannot install TumbleweedI am trying to install Tumbleweed but the installer is not reconising my keyboard and mouse. The keyboard is a Cherry stream and the mouse is a Cherry Gentix wich work perfectly except when I run the installer.What am I doing wrong?
All browsers freeze or crash after dup a week ago All browsers freeze or crash after dup a week agou/elvDropGalar•2 mo. agoAll browsers freeze or crash after dup a week agoI’m running TW, and I usually do a zypper dup every week. After last week’s dup (I don’t remember if I did it on sunday 14, monday 15 or tuesday 16), all my browsers started to freeze after some time, usually around 1 hour of use. After they freeze I can’t kill the process, I can use some other programs but if I want to use any browser again I have to restart the machine, and when I do the restart it will logout and hang on the outro page so I have to force a shutdown by pressing for a few seconds the power button. The browsers I use are Firefox, Brave and LibreWolf. I’ve tried running Brave with gpu disabled, and Firefox/LibreWolf in safe-mode, but that doesn’t solve it. I’m running KDE Plasma 6.5.4, and tried both on Wayland and X11.Unfortunately I tried to fix this by doing zypper dup in the following days, so I can’t rollback because the snapshot when it was working is gone.Chatgpt thinks it might be an issue with GPU (Mesa Intel® HD Graphics 4000) and suggests that I switch to Leap or that I downgrade the Mesa package.Any suggestions on how to diagnose and fix this? Below you may find the output when I run brave in the terminal.user_one@clientPC:~> brave-browser \ --ozone-platform=x11 \ user_one@clientPC:~> brave-browser \ --ozone-platform=x11 \ --disable-gpu \ --disable-gpu-compositing [3989:3989:1221/164956.602349:ERROR:chrome/browser/ui/views/user_education/impl/browser_user_education_interface_impl.cc:154] Attempting to show IPH IPH_DiscardRing before browser initialization complete; IPH will not be shown. [3989:3989:1221/164956.643149:ERROR:chrome/browser/ui/views/user_education/impl/browser_user_education_interface_impl.cc:154] Attempting to show IPH IPH_DiscardRing before browser initialization complete; IPH will not be shown. [3989:3989:1221/164956.674152:ERROR:chrome/browser/ui/views/user_education/impl/browser_user_education_interface_impl.cc:154] Attempting to show IPH IPH_DiscardRing before browser initialization complete; IPH will not be shown. [3989:3989:1221/164956.679925:ERROR:chrome/browser/ui/views/user_education/impl/browser_user_education_interface_impl.cc:154] Attempting to show IPH IPH_DiscardRing before browser initialization complete; IPH will not be shown. MESA-INTEL: warning: Ivy Bridge Vulkan support is incomplete [4045:4045:1221/164959.084419:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A09026009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/165000.455431:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A06026009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [3989:4082:1221/165026.375338:ERROR:content/browser/browser_main_loop.cc:290] GLib: g_main_context_pop_thread_default: assertion 'stack != NULL' failed [3989:4081:1221/165026.375338:ERROR:content/browser/browser_main_loop.cc:290] GLib: g_main_context_pop_thread_default: assertion 'stack != NULL' failed [3989:4084:1221/165026.375340:ERROR:content/browser/browser_main_loop.cc:290] GLib: g_main_context_pop_thread_default: assertion 'stack != NULL' failed [3989:4083:1221/165026.375774:ERROR:content/browser/browser_main_loop.cc:290] GLib: g_main_context_pop_thread_default: assertion 'stack != NULL' failed [4045:4045:1221/181430.883673:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A06026009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181430.949007:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A0B0A8009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181430.973552:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A010A9009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.085148:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A0809E009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.155653:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A0B09E009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.174347:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A0E09E009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.190374:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A0109F009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.455346:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A06026009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.548103:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A04093009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.566677:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A07093009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.575006:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A0A093009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.602558:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A0D093009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.615660:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A04084009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.626150:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A07084009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.694105:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A0A084009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.718963:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A0D084009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.734482:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A080C6049C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.992893:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A0B0C6049C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. --disable-gpu \ --disable-gpu-compositing [3989:3989:1221/164956.602349:ERROR:chrome/browser/ui/views/user_education/impl/browser_user_education_interface_impl.cc:154] Attempting to show IPH IPH_DiscardRing before browser initialization complete; IPH will not be shown. [3989:3989:1221/164956.643149:ERROR:chrome/browser/ui/views/user_education/impl/browser_user_education_interface_impl.cc:154] Attempting to show IPH IPH_DiscardRing before browser initialization complete; IPH will not be shown. [3989:3989:1221/164956.674152:ERROR:chrome/browser/ui/views/user_education/impl/browser_user_education_interface_impl.cc:154] Attempting to show IPH IPH_DiscardRing before browser initialization complete; IPH will not be shown. [3989:3989:1221/164956.679925:ERROR:chrome/browser/ui/views/user_education/impl/browser_user_education_interface_impl.cc:154] Attempting to show IPH IPH_DiscardRing before browser initialization complete; IPH will not be shown. MESA-INTEL: warning: Ivy Bridge Vulkan support is incomplete [4045:4045:1221/164959.084419:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A09026009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/165000.455431:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A06026009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [3989:4082:1221/165026.375338:ERROR:content/browser/browser_main_loop.cc:290] GLib: g_main_context_pop_thread_default: assertion 'stack != NULL' failed [3989:4081:1221/165026.375338:ERROR:content/browser/browser_main_loop.cc:290] GLib: g_main_context_pop_thread_default: assertion 'stack != NULL' failed [3989:4084:1221/165026.375340:ERROR:content/browser/browser_main_loop.cc:290] GLib: g_main_context_pop_thread_default: assertion 'stack != NULL' failed [3989:4083:1221/165026.375774:ERROR:content/browser/browser_main_loop.cc:290] GLib: g_main_context_pop_thread_default: assertion 'stack != NULL' failed [4045:4045:1221/181430.883673:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A06026009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181430.949007:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A0B0A8009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181430.973552:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A010A9009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.085148:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A0809E009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.155653:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A0B09E009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.174347:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A0E09E009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.190374:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A0109F009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.455346:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A06026009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.548103:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A04093009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.566677:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A07093009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.575006:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A0A093009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.602558:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A0D093009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.615660:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A04084009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.626150:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A07084009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.694105:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A0A084009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.718963:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A0D084009C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.734482:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A080C6049C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content. [4045:4045:1221/181431.992893:ERROR:gpu/command_buffer/service/gles2_cmd_decoder_passthrough.cc:1091] [GroupMarkerNotSet(crbug.com/242999)!:A0B0C6049C380000]Automatic fallback to software WebGL has been deprecated. Please use the --enable-unsafe-swiftshader (about:flags#enable-unsafe-swiftshader) flag to opt in to lower security guarantees for trusted content.
How to setup monitor ICC profile in KDE, TW? There is no option like in other distributions How to setup monitor ICC profile in KDE, TW? There is no option like in other distributionsu/Tesex01•2 mo. agoHow to setup monitor ICC profile in KDE, TW? There is no option like in other distributionsTech support
Advanced Radio Advanced Radiou/luminous_sp•2 mo. agoAdvanced RadioHow to… ?Hello everyone.I installed the Advanced Radio widget.The station list isn't showing up. Maybe I need to install something else?Thanks for the advice.
Finally stopped my distro-hopping journey with OpenSUSE tumbleweed Finally stopped my distro-hopping journey with OpenSUSE tumbleweedu/Hydraple_Mortar64•2 mo. agoFinally stopped my distro-hopping journey with OpenSUSE tumbleweedCommunity
My distro hopping journey ended with Tumbleweed My distro hopping journey ended with Tumbleweedu/AscadianScrib•2 mo. agoMy distro hopping journey ended with TumbleweedMy distro hopping journey ended with Tumbleweedr/linux4noobs•2 mo. agoMy distro hopping journey ended with TumbleweedI switched from windows to linux Mint in august, because it's the distro everyone recommended. It was an overall good experience and helped me learn the basics of linux but for me cinnamon felt too outdated.So after a month I switched to Ubuntu but I found out I didn't like Gnome. I then switched to Kubuntu and while I really liked KDE, there were a lot of minor bugs happening for some reason. Then when I tried to install something with apt, it tried to install it with snap and failed, giving me some snap error and that was that. I moved to Debian KDE and it was the best experience so far, used it for a month but when I watched a video about new KDE updates, I wanted a distro that gets updates faster.After some research I installed openSUSE Tumbleweed and it has been a joy to use. I get to have the latest features and it feels super fast. I was afraid something would break every now and then with the rolling release but it has been smooth sailing for over two months now. I usually do an update once a week. I had one bug at the start with internet disconnecting when waking PC from sleep, but it was an easy fix. The automatic snapper backup is great, it saved me from doing a reinstall after I messed up the system with chatGPT assisted tinkering.Tumbleweed is a really underrated distro IMO. I wouldn't recommend it to a complete beginner but if you know the basics then give it a go!19upvotes·4comments
XDG causing shutdown delay - cannot uninstall without taking plasma6 with it. XDG causing shutdown delay - cannot uninstall without taking plasma6 with it.u/Corn_Flake_76•2 mo. agoXDG causing shutdown delay - cannot uninstall without taking plasma6 with it.Tech questionI am diagnosing a shutdown delay on my laptop. This is coming up in the journal:Dec 19 18:30:16 HP-Laptop systemd[1595]: xdg-document-portal.service: State 'stop-sigterm' timed out. Killing.Dec 19 18:30:16 HP-Laptop systemd[1595]: xdg-document-portal.service: Killing process 1728 (xdg-document-po) with signal SIGKILL.Dec 19 18:30:16 HP-Laptop systemd[1595]: xdg-document-portal.service: Killing process 1737 (fusermount3) with signal SIGKILL.Dec 19 18:30:16 HP-Laptop systemd[1595]: xdg-document-portal.service: Killing process 1732 (gmain) with signal SIGKILL.Dec 19 18:30:16 HP-Laptop systemd[1595]: xdg-document-portal.service: Main process exited, code=killed, status=9/KILLDec 19 18:30:16 HP-Laptop systemd[1595]: xdg-document-portal.service: Failed with result 'timeout'.Dec 19 18:30:16 HP-Laptop systemd[1595]: Stopped flatpak document portal service.I don't use flatpaks; however, trying to remove xdg-desktop-portal removes plasma6-desktop with it.root@HP-Laptop:# zypper rm  xdg-desktop-portalReading installed packages...Resolving package dependencies...The following 17 packages are going to be REMOVED:kdeplasma6-addons kf6-frameworkintegration-plugin patterns-kde-kde patterns-kde-kde_plasma plasma6-branding-openSUSE plasma6-desktop plasma6-integration-plugin plasma6-sddm-theme-openSUSE plasma6-session plasma6-session-x11plasma6-theme-openSUSE plasma6-workspace powerdevil6 sddm-branding-openSUSE sddm-qt6-branding-openSUSE xdg-desktop-portal xdg-desktop-portal-kde6The following 2 patterns are going to be REMOVED:kde kde_plasma17 packages to remove.Is there any reason why plasma6-desktop depends on xdg-desktop-portal and is there any way to get rid of the delay otherwise?
Cannot start MicroOS installation from USB Cannot start MicroOS installation from USBu/peter-graybeard•2 mo. agoCannot start MicroOS installation from USBHello,Context: I try to install microOS on a miniPC, so it's bare-metal installation.I have downloaded the latest ISO for MicroOS. I used `dd` to transfer it to a USB.I booted the USB, which immediately shown me the grub menu, Selected Installation, and then I was greeted with a TEXT based menu asking me where is the installation medium!Neither `cd:/`, `hd:/` or other URL seemed to work.When I open a terminal I didn't see any device for my USB disk(!) only the `/dev/zram0`.What could _possibly_ be wrong?The USB stick itself is used to install Proxmox on another PC just 2 days ago, so I know the USB is OK.Any ideas?
Installing with TPM2+PIN encryption - Where do I set the PIN? Installing with TPM2+PIN encryption - Where do I set the PIN?u/todd_dayz•1 mo. agoInstalling with TPM2+PIN encryption - Where do I set the PIN?apologies if this is obvious, but I see it asks me to define a password during install, but I don’t see anything about the PIN?thanks!
Battery life has suddenly gone up Battery life has suddenly gone upu/Additional-Goat-6096•2 mo. agoBattery life has suddenly gone upI just installed tumbleweed on my Asus Zen book with OLED and although it took a few things to figure out what I’d exactly done. After four hours I’ve successfully troubleshoot and got all the games that I really want working playable.I also managed to install steam via flat pack and then reinstall it via something else which confused me for a whole secondary plus trying to get some games to update that I thought weren’t having the key bindings mapped and someone on and so forth but all in all not bad for someone who has not touched linux for over 15 years.However there’s one thing that I noticed straight away that I want to know whether it is just me, I’m guessing it’s not, but it just goes to show how much bloat is in windows.On battery, my machine would last about 3 1/2 hours and well yes I was charging it to around 80%. The battery drainage on this operating system is so much less than what Windows is. I’m just interested to know whether this is common across all of the distros and whether it also goes to prove that maybe a lot of that bloke where and AI was consuming half of my battery time?
Why does startup speed slows with time? Why does startup speed slows with time?u/ManinaPanina•15 days agoWhy does startup speed slows with time?Tech questionWhen I installed Tumbleweed on my ssmi-old notebook last year startup (and shutdown) was incredible fast. The whole process until the desktop took just a few seconds. In 10-15 seconds I think I could power up the notebook, type the password and arrive at the (Plasma) desktop.But with time I got slower. Sometimes it got faster after an update, but now is slow, very slow. It takes more than a minute. Shutdown isn't "blink and you miss it" anymore neither.Is it my fault? I installed very few programas that I rarely use. Maybe it's because my SSD is almost full and I need to free more space (I'm currently trying to do this)?Is this slowing down just "how it is", inevitable, and there's nothing that can be done? If its possible to speed things again, can an average ignorante user do it?
I have a potato running OpenSuse Budgie I have a potato running OpenSuse Budgieu/whyexist12345•2 mo. agoI have a potato running OpenSuse Budgie
Why does my music sound amazing on Opensuse? Why does my music sound amazing on Opensuse?u/LexiStarAngel•2 mo. agoWhy does my music sound amazing on Opensuse?
Help a newbie not lose all my data Help a newbie not lose all my datau/Emordrak•18 days agoHelp a newbie not lose all my dataI have three Drives on my PC and I wanna migrate to opensuseFirst is a SSD for the OS (sda)Second a HDD only used for storing documents and so on (sdb)Third is my SSD M2 used for gaming (sdc)How do I set it up so that only the Sda is formatted to set up the system but I keep the other two intact?I already use a Linux system, which is Pop OS so all the drives are already formatted to Ext4
STL file previews STL file previewsu/67GTA•18 days agoSTL file previewsWhat does everyone else use for .STL file previews/thumbnails? I've used stl-thumb for years but it seems to have gone dormant. Recent updates to mesa have removed some of the libs needed by stl-thumb to work on openSUSE, Fedora, and Arch. Arch still has a few older apps in the AUR that work but they never used mesa to render the thumbnails.
first Linux expirience is OPENSUSE? first Linux expirience is OPENSUSE?u/Fabulous_Pick428•2 mo. agofirst Linux expirience is OPENSUSE?hi, does OPENSUSE is the best for a lil work with SOFTWARE and other stuff? this is my first Linux distribute, i didn't install it yet but i want to install it cuz Windows 11 is little lame for all of this, also OPENSUSE is normal for first installation?
Some levels of SuperTux not working on Tumbleweed Some levels of SuperTux not working on Tumbleweedu/LinuxUser456•20 days agoSome levels of SuperTux not working on TumbleweedTech support
Newest Myrlyn release available for Leap 16? Newest Myrlyn release available for Leap 16?u/chs75•15 days agoNewest Myrlyn release available for Leap 16?Title says it all. I see Myrlyn 1.0 is available for Tumbleweed officially but for Leap 16 we still have the 0.9.7Question: is it supposed to be released also for Leap 16 ( in a few days?) or is it not going to be part of the Leap 16.0 as it stands today?
All the emojis disappeared All the emojis disappearedu/whitemice•20 days agoAll the emojis disappearedVersion: openSUSE Leap 15.6 GNOME, current (2026-01-23) libreoffice-25.2.7.1 fontconfig-2.14.2UPDATE #1 2026-01-26:Verified the same condition occurs on a sparkly fresh install of 15.6.  Emojis appear in gedit, but do not appear in Libreoffice. Appearing in gedit required installation of the non-default noto-coloeemoji-fonts pacakge-UPDATE #2 2026-01-26:Distribution upgrade that 15.6 install to  16 produces a setup where both Libreoffice and gedit display the emojis.  Interesting, this upgrade actually downgrades Libreoffice (16 is25.2.5.2vs 15.6 at 25.2.7.1)-UPDATE #3 2026-01-26:Downgrading the original 15.6 install to Libreoffice24.2.1.2did not resolve the issue in Libreoffice, emojis to still not appear.  So the issue must be some underlying package change.-A very recent update - in the last couple of weeks - caused all the emojis in applications to disappear.  The characters are still there, but they render as blank.  This is in both GTK applications, like gedit, firefox, and libreoffice.I've tried rebuilding the font-cache, wiping application preferences, etc... But this hasn't resolved the issue.Any pointers would be appreciated.
Been thinking about moving to CachyOS Been thinking about moving to CachyOSu/AlienTux•2 mo. agoBeen thinking about moving to CachyOSBeen thinking about moving to CachyOSr/cachyos•2 mo. agoBeen thinking about moving to CachyOSI've been using OpenSuse Tumbleweed with Niri for almost a year I think. It's been a pretty cool experience and everything has been working pretty much fine, no real complaints.I'm a college professor (not in the US), I game a lot, also love designing (Blender, Inkscape), 3d printing and electronics (like microcontrollers). Sometimes I need to use virtual machines to install some Windows only software or to teach my students how to configure things in their own computers.I run everything on an Asus TUF laptop with AMD CPU and GPU so I don't worry much about compatibility.Since we're currently on vacation I want to make a fresh install on my laptop and I'm trying to choose between OpenSuse again or CachyOS.Would you say there are any benefits on using Cachy vs OpenSuse for my use cases?I should also mention that I'm going to be configuring a mini-PC as a server to run Jellyfin and other useful things and I want to install the same Distro on both.I understand this must be asked a lot so if there are any resources that you know of that could help me make a choice I'd the thankful for those as well.45upvotes·21comments
Any tips for transitioning to Leap from Ubuntu? Any tips for transitioning to Leap from Ubuntu?u/avestronics•28 days agoAny tips for transitioning to Leap from Ubuntu?I've been using Ubuntu ever since I started with Linux two years ago. I tried switching once, but a single application I absolutely need (Vivado) would not work on anything other than plain Ubuntu. The app also supports SLES, which according to people here is essentially the same as Leap. I also believe KDE on Leap 16 will not drop X11 anytime soon, which is another big plus for me.I have a few questions regarding the switch:I use a hybrid graphics laptop, and I’d like to be able to enable or disable the NVIDIA GPU as needed. On Ubuntu, for example, there isprime-select.I’m dual-booting with Windows 11 because of competitive games, which require Secure Boot. I remember setting this up on Fedora before and have a rough idea of how it works, but I want the initial setup to be flawless. Are there any tutorials on installing NVIDIA drivers and signing them properly for Secure Boot?Are there any other tips that might be useful?Thanks.
openSUSE media content tools openSUSE media content toolsu/DJMenig•21 days agoopenSUSE media content toolsIs it considered unethical, or a "violation," to create media for openSUSE using a tool like Canva?
Editing repo definitions to local mirror? Editing repo definitions to local mirror?u/martinjh99•28 days agoEditing repo definitions to local mirror?Tech questionI want to speed up my downloads using zypper - Have found the uk mirror for tumbleweed frommirrors.opensuse.orgcan I just edit the repo files using yast and just plugin the new url and have updates and zypper installs etc work?
HDD Clicking Sound on Seagate Drive in openSUSE --- Seeking Advice HDD Clicking Sound on Seagate Drive in openSUSE --- Seeking Adviceu/--kay--•23 days agoHDD Clicking Sound on Seagate Drive in openSUSE --- Seeking AdviceHow to… !Hi all,I recently installed openSUSE on my laptop and noticed aclicking sound from my HDD. After doing some research, I found that this is acommon issue on openSUSE due to very aggressive head parkingWhat I tried so farInstalledparkverbot– did not help.Ransudo hdparm -B 254 /dev/sda– thisreduced the clicking significantly, so it seems confirmed that the noise comes fromhead parking.Options I’ve exploredTLP route:- I could install TLP to manage power settings, including HDD APM.- Issue: TLP isnot default on openSUSE, and on my system it would conflict withpower-profiles-daemonand KDE’s power widget.- I wonder if this issafe/recommendedin my setup.hdparm config file:- Another option I saw is to write a permanent rule in/etc/hdparm.confwithapm=254for my HDD.Before proceeding with either solution, I thought it would be wise to ask for advice:Is thehdparm route the safest and recommended approachfor openSUSE + KDE? or should I install tlp?Is there a better approach I might be missing?Thanks in advance for any guidance!
Can't find Windows in Grub, also no Wifi Can't find Windows in Grub, also no Wifiu/Civil_Nature_372•2 mo. agoCan't find Windows in Grub, also no WifiHey everyone,I just finished installing openSUSE alongside Windows 11, but GRUB doesn't seem to detect Windows at all. I also don't have Wi-Fi on this machine, so I can't download extra packages to help fix it.Here's what I've tried so far:Ran sudo os-prober and it does detect Windows at /dev/nvme0n1p1EDIT: Guys, I already managed to fix it! Thank you for the help!
Blank Screen Gnome Live Image Blank Screen Gnome Live Imageu/Crazy_Mushroom6077•22 days agoBlank Screen Gnome Live ImageTech supportI have an Asus Vivobook 16 Flip (Lunar Lake) laptop with Intel ARC 140V graphics. When I boot the OpenSUSE Tumbleweed Gnome live image I get a blank screen. I don't have this issue when booting the EndeavourOS live image which uses KDE. I assume OpenSUSE is using the same 6.18 kernel as EndeavourOS. Is this a Gnome bug or is there something else going on with OpenSUSE?
MakeMKV and VLC just won't do BluRay at all. MakeMKV and VLC just won't do BluRay at all.u/UrbanGothGentry•2 mo. agoMakeMKV and VLC just won't do BluRay at all.I use OpenSuse Tumbleweed, and it just won't do any BluRay playback or ripping whatsoever. However, drive is seen as a Blu Ray drive, sees all the content of a Blu Ray film disc and all the folder structure and so on. Tried to use ChatGPT to get to the bottom of the problem and I think it's now hallucinating and throwing up bullshit solutions.Drive is a Hitachi LG BU40N 9.5mm drive installed Into a Dell Lattitude E5540.Tellingly, there's broken links on OpenSuse's pages that lead to nowhere.,I may be forced to bin OpenSuse Tumbleweed, which is a shame as I've enjoyed this distro until this happened.  Then again, I'm reliably lead to believe that BluRay support for Linux is a dumpster fire.VLC doesn't work, MakeMKV sees and understand there's a drive there, but does nothing after that point. It's starting to piss me off now.
Bluetooth part of an AX210 crashes, system unable to shut down. Bluetooth part of an AX210 crashes, system unable to shut down.u/EtyareWS•2 mo. agoBluetooth part of an AX210 crashes, system unable to shut down.Tech supportI've been having some weird issues with an AX210, connected via m.2. The Bluetooth part always crashes and resets, but sometimes it cannot reset:[   26.797162] [   T1955] Bluetooth: hci0: Resetting usb device.[   26.960380] [   T1120] usb 1-8: reset full-speed USB device number 2 using xhci_hcd[   27.150655] [   T1120] usb 1-8: Device not responding to setup address.[   27.369827] [   T1120] usb 1-8: Device not responding to setup address.[   27.556757] [   T1120] usb 1-8: device not accepting address 2, error -71[   27.556915] [   T1120] usb 1-8: WARN: invalid context state for evaluate context command.[   27.717211] [   T1120] usb 1-8: reset full-speed USB device number 2 using xhci_hcd[   43.494018] [   T1120] usb 1-8: device descriptor read/64, error -110[   59.364915] [   T1120] usb 1-8: device descriptor read/64, error -110[   59.643726] [   T1120] usb 1-8: reset full-speed USB device number 2 using xhci_hcd[   60.195714] [      C8] xhci_hcd 0000:0e:00.0: ERROR unknown event type 2Only the Bluetooth part, which as far as I'm aware, uses USB in the background, crashes. The Wifi part keeps working fine. Most of the time it can reset properly, but if it crashes, the system cannot shut down properly, it finishes literally everything, but it can't power off.
Thinking of joining Thinking of joiningu/Additional-Goat-6096•2 mo. agoThinking of joiningTech questionHi there,I’m most likely moving one of my laptops to Linux. Just trying to figure out which one will be best as I’m not the most advanced techie but am not a noob.My two options are leap and slowroll. I know I have both 2D and 3D games which do better with slowroll, I’m just worried that it will break and is going to be more hassle then it’s worth as I seem to go through peaks and valleys with gaming.Any advice welcome and thanks in advance.EDIT x 2 the edit: I really don't know what to do between Slowroll and Tumbleweed - later the same day.   I got impatient and installed tumble. Read via formatting my 2 TB hard drive one of plenty. There were a few finicky quirks that I had to work out with some games but I pretty much expected that and I finally got my favourite games working. It’ll also just take them getting used to with some certain things but it already feels better
Dolphin shows wrong size of free space on NTFS drive Dolphin shows wrong size of free space on NTFS driveu/strohkoenig•26 days agoDolphin shows wrong size of free space on NTFS driveTech support
Tumbleweed – Review of the week 2025/51 Tumbleweed – Review of the week 2025/51u/bmwiedemann•2 mo. agoTumbleweed – Review of the week 2025/51New versionhttps://dominique.leuenberger.net/blog/2025/12/tumbleweed-review-of-the-week-2025-51/
Weird install interface Weird install interfaceu/canteatbricks•17 days agoWeird install interfaceTech question
Tumbleweed at its best Tumbleweed at its bestu/whyexist12345•2 mo. agoTumbleweed at its best
Bootloader not displaying/defaulting to black version (unsure how to describe/search on google) Bootloader not displaying/defaulting to black version (unsure how to describe/search on google)u/AlternativeNose1•2 mo. agoBootloader not displaying/defaulting to black version (unsure how to describe/search on google)Tech supportI have used SUSE and OpenSUSE on and off since the 90's but I'm completly stuck on this issue and don't even know how to google it/search for help (probably how I'm wording the search terms). Its also not really an issue, but more something I'm stuck on and therefore can learn from.When my desktop boots, its starts with the normal "green" openSUSE bootloader for about a second and then switches to the standard black GNU bootloader. I can see all my snapshots and kernals etc, but I just don't understand why its doing this.I rolled back the snapshot, then did a clean install tried to reconfigured the bootloader in YAST etc. But I'm completly stumped.Just doneanotherclean install and still same behaviour. Any ideas?
Bambu Studio in openSUSE. Bambu Studio in openSUSE.u/v12cat•2 mo. agoBambu Studio in openSUSE.Hi all. Just wondering if anyone has managed to get Bambu Studio to work in openSUSE? There is a Fedora and an Ubuntu Appimage. I've presently got it running on a  Panasonic tablet but both my PC's are running openSUSE and would really rather not have to interact with windows!!
Announcing new cockpit application: cockpit-bootloader Announcing new cockpit application: cockpit-bootloaderu/Reblist•2 mo. agoAnnouncing new cockpit application: cockpit-bootloaderhttps://lists.opensuse.org/archives/list/factory@lists.opensuse.org/thread/XOOPYCX3B25UUZFMVTWBI2DDL644E5RI/
/dev/sda3 root filling up mysteriously /dev/sda3 root filling up mysteriouslyu/jcdick1•22 days ago/dev/sda3 root filling up mysteriouslyMy /dev/sda3 - mounted as / - is again at 100% and I can't figure out why.  It is an Ext4 partition on a 136G drive with an 8M boot partition, as I didn't want the BTRFS snaps doing exactly this.Here is a df -h:Filesystem Size Used Avail Use% Mounted on/dev/sda3 95G 90G 138M 100% /devtmpfs 4.0M 0 4.0M 0% /devtmpfs 16G 0 16G 0% /dev/shmtmpfs 6.3G 85M 6.2G 2% /runtmpfs 1.0M 0 1.0M 0% /run/credentials/systemd-tmpfiles-setup-dev-early.servicetmpfs 1.0M 0 1.0M 0% /run/credentials/systemd-sysctl.servicetmpfs 1.0M 0 1.0M 0% /run/credentials/systemd-sysusers.servicetmpfs 1.0M 0 1.0M 0% /run/credentials/systemd-tmpfiles-setup-dev.servicetmpfs 1.0M 0 1.0M 0% /run/credentials/systemd-tmpfiles-setup.servicetmpfs 1.0M 0 1.0M 0% /run/credentials/systemd-vconsole-setup.servicetmpfs 1.0M 0 1.0M 0% /run/credentials/getty@tty1.servicetmpfs 3.2G 80K 3.2G 1% /run/user/1004Running 'sudo ncdu /' outputs the following:3.5 GiB [ ] /usr711.1 MiB [ ] /lib458.2 MiB [ ] /var193.0 MiB [ ] /home. 84.2 MiB [ ] /run64.5 MiB [ ] /boot21.9 MiB [ ] /opt21.5 MiB [ ] /etc9.0 MiB [ ] /lib645.0 MiB [ ] /sbin1.3 MiB [ ] /root236.0 KiB [ ] /bin72.0 KiB [ ] /tmp20.0 KiB [ ] /srve 16.0 KiB [ ] /lost+founde 4.0 KiB [ ] /selinux. 0.0 B [ ] /proc0.0 B [ ] /sys0.0 B [ ] /devThere's nothing there that adds up to the 90+ GB being used on /dev/sda3.  I cannot figure out what is using the space, or how to clear it.  The last time this happened, I was using BTRFS, and quite frankly, I got tired of trying to figure it out and just wiped and re-installed.  I'm hoping to avoid that this time by inquiring with brighter minds than mine.Any assistance is greatly appreciated.
Failing to install Tumbleweed with GRUB2-EFI Failing to install Tumbleweed with GRUB2-EFIu/chemistryGull•2 mo. agoFailing to install Tumbleweed with GRUB2-EFITech support
Unable to start Tumbleweed Live Stick on Lenovo T14 Gen 6 Intel - Black Screen Unable to start Tumbleweed Live Stick on Lenovo T14 Gen 6 Intel - Black Screenu/Brilliant_Fee_8739•24 days agoUnable to start Tumbleweed Live Stick on Lenovo T14 Gen 6 Intel - Black ScreenHi,I am trying to run a live boot usb stick with the current Tumbleweed on it. On my PC everything is working fine.But trying to boot from usb on my new Laptop (Thinkpad T14 Gen6 Intel CPU and Graphic) it does not boot. I am able to do the selection for booting on the first screen, but afterwards only a black screen.Any idea?
Troubling installing OpenSUSE Tumbleweed on HP Victus Gaming Laptop 15-fb3032np Troubling installing OpenSUSE Tumbleweed on HP Victus Gaming Laptop 15-fb3032npu/brunommpreto•27 days agoTroubling installing OpenSUSE Tumbleweed on HP Victus Gaming Laptop 15-fb3032npTech support
I'm interested in switching to openSUSE I'm interested in switching to openSUSEu/Acu17y•2 mo. agoI'm interested in switching to openSUSEHi guys, this is my first time using this distro. Until now, I've mainly used Debian, but I want a good rolling release distro. That's my kde debianhttps://www.reddit.com/r/debian/comments/1om463p/debian_aesthetic/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web3x&utm_name=web3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_buttonHowever, I've read that openSUSE Tumbleweed is an excellent rolling release, said to be one of the most stable ever and very up-to-date. So I thought I'd try it, hoping it might give me what I'm looking for :)What should I know before switching to openSUSE? I read that it uses Zypper and not apt, what else? Also, is it suitable for a full AMD build with a 7900XTX to test ROCm in local AI?
EU - OS - Proof of concept based on US-IBMs Fedora-RHEL problematic? EU - OS - Proof of concept based on US-IBMs Fedora-RHEL problematic?u/Schroinx•2 mo. agoEU - OS - Proof of concept based on US-IBMs Fedora-RHEL problematic?EditorialFrom a business perspective, I can see why IBM has positioned Feodra as it has. It stands to grab some license & consultency, while it can test things. Thats not much of a problem, for US companies, but for EUropeans, looking to kick the US tech & US mega tech monopolies out of their sever rooms & datacenters, it is. It become much worse, as US law apply to all under it jurisdiction. Linus turned down NSA. Will IBM do the same for its Linux, with Trump? Can we trust IBM? I'd say not anymore, and despite their and all the US mega tech companies promises to the contrary, we can't trust the US techcos for anything sensitive. IBM still do a gov & corporate contracts in EUrope.Why are they not starting with openSuse for the proof-of-concept, when the functions in Fedora, can be transplanted to opensuse, as both are FOSS?Then of cause there is the issue, that companies and governments who would like to pay for a license, updates and support, will if Fedora is chosen, go to IBMs Linux, not our EUropean Suse. I much rather pay to them, than IBM.
Annoyed with passwords Annoyed with passwordsu/Substantial-Yam3769•23 days agoAnnoyed with passwordsHello, i returned to openSUSE after a year, but i remembered why i left it, the constant need to put in passwords for everything.How do i get rid of it? I log in, password for Kwallet, password for yast, password for vpn. Want to change/disconnect vpn? Another password. Wanna download any app (including flatpak) another password.How do i change that? I can understand for installing/uninstalling RPM systemwide, but for flatpak? VPN? I don't see a reason, i also never had to put password into Kwallet every time i logged in.Can someone give me some tips?Thank yoiSlowroll
Best Distro because look at this whimsical creature Best Distro because look at this whimsical creatureu/LotlKing47•2 mo. agoBest Distro because look at this whimsical creature
VSCode no longer respects Global Menu VSCode no longer respects Global Menuu/Gullible_Response_54•2 mo. agoVSCode no longer respects Global MenuSince today (18.12.) vscode does not work well with the plasmoid global-menu anymore.I assume it is either bcs of a TW update or bcs of a vscode-update - both got updated today.I can get it back by running it withcode --ozone-platform=x11This, however, does not constitute a permanent solution :-DChat-GPT insists that vscode does no longer "officially support" global menu and treats it as "ubuntu only", but I cannot find any proper information.my system:Operating System: openSUSE Tumbleweed 20251212KDE Plasma Version: 6.5.4KDE Frameworks Version: 6.20.0Qt Version: 6.10.1Kernel Version: 6.18.0-2-default (64-bit)Graphics Platform: WaylandProcessors: 12 × 12th Gen Intel® Core™ i7-1255UMemory: 32 GiB of RAM (31.0 GiB usable)Graphics Processor: Intel® Iris® Xe GraphicsManufacturer: LENOVOProduct Name: 21C1002HGESystem Version: ThinkPad L14 Gen 3Is there a reliable wayland way to run global menus on a system like this ...This is my first bust with wayland and I am glad that it exists, but the feature regression for global menu is a mild nuisance!edit: codium does still work - for nowI hope someone can shed some light on this and help me outall the best and thanks for everything in advance :-)
MicroOS for Raspberry Pi 4 no GUI? MicroOS for Raspberry Pi 4 no GUI?u/srcurrie1966•1 mo. agoMicroOS for Raspberry Pi 4 no GUI?I have installed the container version of MicroOS for the Raspberry Pi 4.  After setup I was greeted with the familiar terminal.  I signed in as me then su.  I did transaction-update and the PI updated.  I rebooted.  No gui login.  I was using a youtuber's video as instruction but no gui and no service was found when I attempted to  fix the service.  I see the video was 2years old so something must have changed.So... on the Raspberry Pi is there no Aeon or Kalpa?  I definitely can use it and I see the binaries in /bin.  I am just making sure I am not missing something.Oh I did not use any configuration file(no igintition orcombustion).
Tumbleweed & Slowroll for those who love stability - Tumbleweed & Slowroll for those who love stability -u/Ivan_De_Felice76•2 mo. agoTumbleweed & Slowroll for those who love stability -https://forum.openresource.it/viewtopic.php?t=839#p921
How to install suggested packages with zypper How to install suggested packages with zypperu/KillerQueenOriginal•1 mo. agoHow to install suggested packages with zypper
i have always liked SUSE should i take the jump i have always liked SUSE should i take the jumpu/samnotathrowaway•2 mo. agoi have always liked SUSE should i take the jumpI have been using Fedora for like 2 years, but I want to jump ship before IBM comes with the axe. It's only a matter of time. Ubuntu got axed in a way byCanonicall doesn't meanit'ss unusab,le bit'sits not wit its used to. Fedoraora will have the same fate oit'se it big enough. I have always heard good stuff about OpenSUSE, it'scommunity-maintainedd like Arch, but has an enterprise edition. Other,n so it has some green flowing and intensive to be maintained other than passion.I want to use tumbleweed for daily use and leap for server stuff. anything else I should know or im good to jump
Asus G15 Advantage Edition(6800M) kernel patch Asus G15 Advantage Edition(6800M) kernel patchu/Tricky-Truth-5537•1 mo. agoAsus G15 Advantage Edition(6800M) kernel patchHow to… ?I recently bought Asus G15 with 6800M GPU and when i finish setting up asus rog gui it keep asking asus-armoury-driver which is needed for panel override, is there any way to get in tumbleweed ? i don't want to keep compiling patches when new kernel versions come basically every week
Terraria note working Terraria note workingu/LucielRenCrisantemo•1 mo. agoTerraria note workingHi! I recently switched from Mint to openSUSE, but I’m having a problem with Steam. Terraria runs (I can see it in the task preview), but the screen stays completely black. Not sure if it’s my setup or a Terraria issue. As a test, Postal 2 works fine, so it doesn’t seem to be a general Steam problem.
Tumbleweed update just installed office and games and tools I never asked for Tumbleweed update just installed office and games and tools I never asked foru/ircy2012•2 mo. agoTumbleweed update just installed office and games and tools I never asked forTech supportSorry if I did something obviously wrong, I'm two weeks into using Tumbleweed so I'm still learning.I ran "zypper dup" which as far as I understand should update the system.I didn't bother checking the packages that would be installed and pressed enter.Bad idea.Before this I didn't have office, I didn't have games I didn't have a lot of things it added without me asking.I rolled back to a previous snapshot but now if I try to run an update again I can clearly see that all those things are on the update list?It even specifically says:The following 7 NEW patterns are going to be installed: games kde_games kde_multimedia kde_office kde_pim multimedia officeI didn't ask for any of these. I don't want any of these.What gives? I don't think it's normal that it just decided to install all of these things I specifically disabled during the installation.What can I do to fix this?ThanksAdded: Just to be clear. It's not the first time I run that. Just the first time it did this.
Tumbleweed Installation stuck Tumbleweed Installation stucku/STGO-Greens•1 mo. agoTumbleweed Installation stuckTech supportHey community,today I tried to install OpenSuse Tumbleweed. I created a USB flash that works.At this moment I have Linux Mint installed. The installation boot loader works, after scanning for hardware the installation stops or get stuck with a black screen and only the symbol - in the left upper corner.Any idea why this happens?My hardware: MSI H310M Arctic Mainboard, Intel i5-9400K, Nvidia 1660 TI, 32 GB RAM.
Why is SeLinux such pain? Why is SeLinux such pain?u/Gbitd•1 mo. agoWhy is SeLinux such pain?CommunityWhy every once in a while I keep bumping into weird selinux problems? Using podman? Selinux problem. Trying to game? Selinux problem. From now on I'll only use AppArmor on opensuse.
SSH public key SSH public keyu/Dmags23•1 mo. agoSSH public keyHey everyone,I am new to opensuse but trying to set it up right now ut having some issues. I have generated an SSH public key but can't figure out how to get it into the ssh server.I am using KDE plasma as the GUI right now.This will be used to let a windows machine to connect to this device
Permission issues with docker in a new Leap 16.0 installation Permission issues with docker in a new Leap 16.0 installationu/xWizardux•2 mo. agoPermission issues with docker in a new Leap 16.0 installationTech supportOn a fresh install of Leap 16.0, I installed docker and docker compose. I am using a compose file that worked on another machine. It’s throwing permission error on Leap. I have added my user to docker group. How do I fix this?services:    dozzle:     container_name: dozzle-agent     image: amir20/dozzle:latest     command: agent     networks:       - local_dozzle     restart: unless-stopped     ports:       - 7007:7007     volumes:       - /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro  networks:   local_dozzle:     name: local_dozzleThe error I get:dozzle-agent  | {"level":"fatal","version":"v8.14.12","error":"failed to create docker client: permission denied while trying to connect to the Docker daemon socket at unix:///var/run/docker.sock: Get \"http://%2Fvar%2Frun%2Fdocker.sock/v1.51/info\": dial unix /var/run/docker.sock: connect: permission denied","time":"2025-12-16T20:04:48Z","message":"Failed to run command"}User info:> groups username docker wheelI've already signed out and back in, rebooted the machine, re-installed docker. Nothing seems to be working.
Myrlyn search feature is not great Myrlyn search feature is not greatu/TxTechnician•21 days agoMyrlyn search feature is not greatTech questioncurious about your experiences.for me, search has failed a few times.For example:https://software.opensuse.org/package/texlive-xcolor-materialif I search for `xcolor-material `nothing pulls up.  have to use the full package name to get it to work.
Remaining Nvidia packages after switch to AMD - what to delete? Remaining Nvidia packages after switch to AMD - what to delete?u/TheHexWrench•23 days agoRemaining Nvidia packages after switch to AMD - what to delete?Tech supportI made the switch from NVIDIA to AMD a few weeks back and deleted (seemingly not all) drivers. Seemingly not all, because I get sometimes the "license agreement" text when updating my distro.These are all NVIDIA packages remaining on my system:What is safe to delete, what should I keep? I believe the  libnvidia-* and nvidia-* packages are causing the "license agreement" text since they are all proprietary. I just don't want to delete everything without knowing what I'm doing... Thanks!
Wine doesn't work on Leap 16 Wine doesn't work on Leap 16u/Yolomaeus1•1 mo. agoWine doesn't work on Leap 16Tech supportI just installed Leap 16 and wanted to install my wine apps but had to find out, that none of them worked. Is this a known problem and are there any fixes? These are the first lines of the output:0058:err:ntoskrnl:ServiceMain Failed to load L"C:\\windows\\system32\\win32k.sys"0058:err:ntoskrnl:ServiceMain Failed to load L"C:\\windows\\system32\\drivers\\dxgkrnl.sys"0058:err:ntoskrnl:ServiceMain Failed to load L"C:\\windows\\system32\\drivers\\dxgmms1.sys"00cc:err:ntoskrnl:ServiceMain Failed to load L"C:\\windows\\system32\\win32k.sys"00cc:err:ntoskrnl:ServiceMain Failed to load L"C:\\windows\\system32\\drivers\\dxgkrnl.sys"00cc:err:ntoskrnl:ServiceMain Failed to load L"C:\\windows\\system32\\drivers\\dxgmms1.sys"
How to adjust boot parameters with GRUB2-BLS How to adjust boot parameters with GRUB2-BLSu/Accomplished_Gur9454•19 days agoHow to adjust boot parameters with GRUB2-BLSTech questionSorry if this is a "noob question" but I could not find an answer to this.I would like to modify my boot parameters on my openSUSE Tumbleweed install so that, instead of the Tumbleweed and computer manufacturer logo, I get the lines of systemd initialization messages.  I like seeing these to help be sure that everything starts ok on a boot.Coming from Ubuntu, I did this by modifying the file /etc/default/grub and removing the "quiet splash" from the boot parameters.  However, this file does not exist at this location in TW.Is this possible to do in TW?Please note that I have not used openSUSE for very long, so a lot of things are new to me.Thanks for your help!  I am loving Tumbleweed so far and now just trying to set up the fine details of how I like my installs.
I'm missing something I'm missing somethingu/Zz131zZ•1 mo. agoI'm missing somethingI have a laptop, it was Windows, then Ubuntu. somehow 4got pw. got SUSE Leap 16. I get a scroll of text, followed by a prompt. I'm looking for how to get to the desktop (srry windows word)
Which distro/image do you use in Distrobox containers for OpenSUSE Aeon? Which distro/image do you use in Distrobox containers for OpenSUSE Aeon?u/Spirited_Paramedic_8•24 days agoWhich distro/image do you use in Distrobox containers for OpenSUSE Aeon?Tech questionI'm trying to understand if I should be going for rolling release and auto updating containers or whether I should go for LTS releases that have long update cycles.I like the idea of getting every security update and frequently for containers. Although I have 8GB RAM on my laptop. What would you do? Does it depend on what you are installing?
Fresh OpenSUSE install fails Fresh OpenSUSE install failsu/xWizardux•26 days agoFresh OpenSUSE install failsTech supportOn a fresh install of OpenSUSE 16.0, the system goes in a state where most commands don’t work. It’s installed as a server.> fsck -f /dev/sde -bash: /usr/bin/cnf: Input/output error  > sudo fsck -f /dev/sde sudo: unable to open /var/lib/sudo/ts/1000: Read-only file system [sudo] password for user:  Segmentation fault  > journalctl -xb No journal files were found. Failed to execute 'less', will try 'more' next: Input/output error  > df -kh -bash: /usr/bin/df: Input/output error  > sudo snapper list sudo: unable to open /var/lib/sudo/ts/1000: Read-only file system [sudo] password for user:   # │ Type   │ Pre # │ Date                            │ User │ Cleanup │ Description           │ Userdata ───┼────────┼───────┼─────────────────────────────────┼──────┼─────────┼───────────────────────┼───────────── 0  │ single │       │                                 │ root │         │ current               │ 1* │ single │       │ Sat 17 Jan 2026 12:30:39 PM CST │ root │         │ first root filesystem │ 2  │ pre    │       │ Sat 17 Jan 2026 01:05:46 PM CST │ root │ number  │ pre nano install      │ important=no 3  │ post   │     2 │ Sat 17 Jan 2026 01:05:48 PM CST │ root │ number  │ post nano install     │ important=no 4  │ pre    │       │ Sat 17 Jan 2026 02:45:15 PM CST │ root │ number  │ pre tree install      │ important=no 5  │ post   │     4 │ Sat 17 Jan 2026 02:45:17 PM CST │ root │ number  │ post tree install     │ important=noA reboot usually resolves the issue but only for a couple of hours or minutes.Assuming it was a hardware issue, I tried with a new external  SSD but it had the same results after about less than 24 hours. I have also ruled out SELinux by not installing it in the last 2 fresh installs. It’s driving me at my wits end.
Switch to Leap Switch to Leapu/Complete-Peach1902•2 mo. agoSwitch to LeapHi All,I wanted to share my experience with Leap 16 so far. There was a lot of negative feedback when it first launched, so I held off for a bit. On Friday, I was debating on upgrading my home workstation to Fedora 43 from 42, or install Leap. I went with Leap and its been great for my workflow so far! I do audio production, software development and light gaming on Steam.I went with the base install but skipped adding a swap partition as I planned on creating a ZRAM partition post install. Everything is running great, but I did end up making the following modifications:STORAGE & FILESYSTEM---------------------- Btrfs compression: compress=zstd:1 enabled on all btrfs subvolumes- SSD optimizations: discard=async and ssd mount options active- Setup external backup drive: /run/media/marc/backup (ext4) with automountMEMORY & SWAP-------------- Zram: Configured at 25% of RAM (~8GB) using zstd compressionConfig: /etc/systemd/zram-generator.conf- Swappiness: Reduced to 10Config: /etc/sysctl.d/99-swappiness.confKERNEL BOOT PARAMETERS----------------------- mitigations=off      - CPU vulnerability mitigations disabled (audio performance)- threadirqs           - Threaded IRQ handlers (audio latency)- ia32_emulation=1     - 32-bit support enabled (for wine)- SELinux enabled at bootNETWORK & REMOTE ACCESS------------------------ Tailscale: Configured with multiple devices in tailnet- NAS mount: TrueNAS CIFS share at /mnt/Library with credentials- Cockpit: Web management enabled- SSH: Enabled- Firewall: cockpit, dhcpv6-client, ssh services allowedSERVICES & AUTOMATION---------------------- home-backup.timer: Daily backup at 17:00Script: /usr/local/sbin/backup_restore.sh- ydotoold: Automation tool service enabledSOFTWARE ADDITIONS------------------- Ardour 9: Compiled from source (/usr/local/bin/ardour9)- Wine 10.10 + winetricks- Cockpit suite: Full management stack (SELinux, podman, kdump modules)- Google Chrome- SELinux gaming policy: selinux-policy-targeted-gamingFlatpak Apps (23):- Gradia, calibre, MarkText, Flatseal, Plexamp, Steam, Fretboard- Stella, ROTA, Speech Note, Cockpit Client, Extensions, Polari- Inkscape, Kdenlive, Krita, Okular, Parabolic, Nicotine+- ONLYOFFICE Desktop Editors, Remmina, Signal DesktopDESKTOP (GNOME)---------------Extensions:- Dash-to-Dock- Soft Brightness Plus- VitalsSo thanks to the Devs! I'm super happy so far and glad to be on Leap. I spent the weekend doing everything I needed without a hiccup. Cheers
Not booting after installing custom kernel Not booting after installing custom kernelu/theleninlover•2 mo. agoNot booting after installing custom kernelTech supportI need some help. I just switched from cachyos to opensuse and I tried installing the tkg kernel but now it wont boot and the old kernel doesnt appear in grub anymore. How can I change the kernel to the stock kernel?
Nvidia drivers - zypper dup trying to downgrade from 580 to 575? Nvidia drivers - zypper dup trying to downgrade from 580 to 575?u/Informal_Support7942•2 mo. agoNvidia drivers - zypper dup trying to downgrade from 580 to 575?For the last week or so every time I try to zypper dup in the terminal it keeps telling me that it wants to downgrade all of my Nvidia packages, (ten of them - from Nvidia's CUDA repository) from my installed 580 versions to 575 ones.  Didn't see this in Myrlyn so tried dup'ing from there instead and got some error about package conflicts so that didn't help either.  Any ideas, (other than purging all Nvidia drivers again)?  Thanks.
Nvidia's new 2nd gen DLSS tranformer model 310.5.0 released! Nvidia's new 2nd gen DLSS tranformer model 310.5.0 released!u/DAUNTINGY•1 mo. agoNvidia's new 2nd gen DLSS tranformer model 310.5.0 released!Nvidia's new 2nd gen DLSS tranformer model 310.5.0 released!r/linux_gaming•1 mo. agoNvidia's new 2nd gen DLSS tranformer model 310.5.0 released!134upvotes·39comments
How do I change keyboard layout on password input (Full Disk Encryption) How do I change keyboard layout on password input (Full Disk Encryption)u/Abra_-_K•2 mo. agoHow do I change keyboard layout on password input (Full Disk Encryption)A couple monthes ago I tried openSUSE and had issues with the keyboard layout while typing in my password for FDE. I need `de-neo`, but the default was the us layout (and from searching online, this cannot be changed since it get's the layout from the BIOS (if I understood correctly)). I decided to give openSUSE another shot and it now looks like the password input I know from fedora AND it has the `de` layout! I tried to change it for 3h, and before wasting another 3 I'd love to know if someone knows how to achieve this.the common way I found online is:localectl set-keymap de-neo sudo dracut -f -HThisdoeschange the keyboard layout to `de-neo` in ttys and gdm, which is nice, but not in the password input.I tried a BUNCH of stuff that just didn't work and I'm really frustrated and confused what I'm doing wrong.
Grub menu issues Grub menu issuesu/Natural-Orchid-2362•2 mo. agoGrub menu issuesTech supportHai! Not the place I wish to be but yet here I am, I’m a bit of an idiot when it comes to linux, while I wish I knew a lot I unfortunately do not, I just installed openSUSE tumbleweed as my fourth distribution on my laptop Yay, now the problem I have is a lil bit stupid but I figured someone here might be able to help me, I have my grub2 menu and it shows my other ones perfectly fine… It shows my Fedora my Kubuntu and my Kali but not openSUSE every time I tried something like os-probe on fedora it showed yes it can see openSUSE when I reconfigured the grub2 config using terminal it said it found it, but it doesn’t show up? Which I find rather weird and annoying since I do not wanna have to go into my bios and reorder my boot loader every time I want to boot into it. I just want to know what I need to do to get it to show up, as I really do want to try it but want to be able to boot into it without having to go through multiple menus. I did do some googling and was able to get a custom option but it just loads into openSUSE’s own menu to choose it, which while yes kinda works? It’s not how I wish it would, I just want to click enter and it loads right into it like all my others, if anyone can help me with this I’d greatly appreciate it as google seems to be no help whatsoever. Thank youuuuu
Will Leap 16.x support X11 until 17 comes along? Will Leap 16.x support X11 until 17 comes along?u/avestronics•1 mo. agoWill Leap 16.x support X11 until 17 comes along?Tech questionHi everyone. Sorry if this sounds a bit amateur, but I want to make sure I will have X11 available. I am using Vivado, which supports only Ubuntu and SLES with X11. I have read that openSUSE Leap is extremely similar to SLES, so I believe Vivado should work without issues.I have been using Ubuntu for the past 14 months, but I have encountered many problems and would like to switch. I am also a bit tired of GNOME and want to try KDE. I tested KDE once on Fedora and it felt great.My concern is that KDE plans to drop X11 support, and alternative desktop environments are not up to my standards. My question is: will openSUSE Leap 16.x continue to support X11 until Leap 17 is released? I am not sure how things work on openSUSE.
Legacy NVidia GT 710 card on Tumbleweed vs. Leap 16.0 Legacy NVidia GT 710 card on Tumbleweed vs. Leap 16.0u/realkikinovak•2 mo. agoLegacy NVidia GT 710 card on Tumbleweed vs. Leap 16.0Hi,My sandbox PC has a legacy NVidia GT 710 video card. I installed Tumbleweed on it, and the proprietary NVidia 470 driver installed just fine.Now I gave Leap 16.0 a spin, and apparently there's no way to install the NVidia 470 driver on this system.I'm confused. Any suggestions ?
Do you Tumbleweed users reload your system after every big dup? Do you Tumbleweed users reload your system after every big dup?u/neondervish•2 mo. agoDo you Tumbleweed users reload your system after every big dup?How to… ?I mean, as far as I understand, TW updates to a new snapshot version and zypper might tell you "this and that package has a new version, so it's better to reload" which is pretty often. Do you reboot your machine every time?
PV - Version in repository missing the -o switch PV - Version in repository missing the -o switchu/Truzenzuzex•1 mo. agoPV - Version in repository missing the -o switchHow to… ?Hi all,I´m a bloody amateur and am wrestling with pv to backup my disks. I have this running under Debian, where pv is at version 1.9.31 . The Debian version has the -o ( output ) switch, the opensuse version in the repository sadly doesn´t .In Debian I can do " sudo pv *.img -o /dev/sdd " which works just fine.In Tumbleweed " sudo pv *.img > /dev/sdd " leads to  " Keine Berechtigung ".What am I missing here ? Is there somewhere a version for Tumbleweed that has the -o switch ?
Open/Suse Linux Enterprise working nonworking issue. Open/Suse Linux Enterprise working nonworking issue.u/intraserver•2 mo. agoOpen/Suse Linux Enterprise working nonworking issue.Hello all. I need some advice or hint with very strange thing in Open/Suse Linux area. I'm using *nix-like OS for testing, coding and VM. I did want to try OpenSuse Leap 15.6/16.0 even OpenSuse Tumblewee. And interesting it doesn't work with Dell Precision 5550, even you can't boot. (Some broken kernel on boot.) Only version from OpenSuse Leap which works with Precision 5550 is 15.5. But I didn't gave up. And I jump in Suse Linux Enterprise 15 SP7 and works perfect no issues. Anyone has same issue? Strangely there shouldn't be difference in Leap/Tumbleweed/Enterprise releases.
Can I ignore files conflict when upgrading Can I ignore files conflict when upgradingu/GoodFortuneHand•2 mo. agoCan I ignore files conflict when upgradingTech supportFrom time to time, when upgrading zypper dup, I get one or two file conflicts warnings. I let the new version install, however in myrlyn there is no way out and cancels the upgrade.File /usr/lib64/gstreamer-1.0/libgstfaad.sofrom install ofgstreamer-plugins-bad-1.26.9-1.1.x86_64 (openSUSE:Tumbleweed)conflicts with file from packagegstreamer-plugins-bad-orig-addon-1.22.8-34.2.x86_64 (@System)Should I be worried, or do something else?
Tumbleweed VM/KVM/QEMU - "No Route to Host" Tumbleweed VM/KVM/QEMU - "No Route to Host"u/DonaldFauntelroyDuck•2 mo. agoTumbleweed VM/KVM/QEMU - "No Route to Host"HiI am running a couple of Virtual machines on a Tumbleweed Host. *One* of them stopped working after a zypper up/zypper dup in a way I do not comprehend:- Ping works without problem- VM gets via DHCP IP Adress- From anywhere outside PING works- From anywhere outside *nothing else works*! No SSH, RDP, VNC etc. -> Always "No Route to Host"Anyone any idea? Please note all other VMs on the same host work as before. Only the one and only tumbleweed one claims not to exist.I tried to "upgrade" this VM with a new Virtual machine, using the same disks and a fresh ISO from the openSuSE homepage (via -> Upgrade in the installter). This obivously refreshens the packages, but still, the VM is not accessible from the outside.Very confused I am. Anyone ever seen this? Any idea where to look?As it is a xRDP setup for  many users it is kind of hell here at the moment.Thanks a bunch.
I am running Waydroid in openSUSE inside VMware I am running Waydroid in openSUSE inside VMwareu/LoudRaccoon590•26 days agoI am running Waydroid in openSUSE inside VMwareSomething that would be interestingI am running Waydroid in openSUSE inside VMwarer/waydroid•26 days agoI am running Waydroid in openSUSE inside VMwareCurrently I am working to make Waydroid runs in openSUSE and thankfully it's working flawlessly, and now I am maintaining the devel branch ofEmulators:Waydroidand I am testing it by installing DKMS first, then install Waydroid without recommended dependencies from there, and it works. Well, I am also open the contributions to everyone for improving the sources inmy Git repo at Codebergwhich I am gonna push every changes made on the Git repo into the repo that I am currently maintaining (which I am gonnna push it into openSUSE Factory soon). Feel free to contribute if you want improve it.9upvotes·1comment
how do I know if Resizable Bar / Smart access memory is enabled? how do I know if Resizable Bar / Smart access memory is enabled?u/LotlKing47•1 mo. agohow do I know if Resizable Bar / Smart access memory is enabled?Tech questionI am not the brightest when it comes to this so please be softer with me-Basically my title, I got an AMD GPU (rx 9060 xt) with an intel i5-8400 CPU aswell as an Asus Z-730P Motherboard and I am kind of trying to learn about this smart access memory stuff the gpu can appearently do.within my bios i have above 4G Decoding enabled, however PCI settings don't exist in my current version (and I don't want to update in case I do not have to/if SAM is enabled already somehow)from other threads I found this terminal commend that shows the Bar and I got the following results from itdmesg | greb BAR=[drm] Detected VRAM RAM=8144M, BAR=8192MI am unsure wether this indicates sam is already on or not? my gut is saying yes from what I am processing here but i could 100% be wrong.Someone suggested I should try and do a bit of benchmarking with the 4g decoding stuff enabled/disabled and see if there are any differences or not and I may consider doing that another time, but for now i thought i would just simply ask here before breaking something.
Fresh install - Keyboard layout issue Fresh install - Keyboard layout issueu/No_Distribution_7182•1 mo. agoFresh install - Keyboard layout issueHi, i download the ISO this morning, and have a fresh install of tumbleweed but i have issues with the keyboard layout. I use a spanish keyboard.But even if the locale is setting properlyThe layout is used in the console, and the app is not he right one, the ñ key is not working the brackets are in the incorrect keys. It's like the internal keyboard layout is busted.I tried using another Spanish layout (like Latin American) but none of them works properly, no ñ on everyoneAny idea how I can fix this? I run out of ideas.
ntsync in openSUSE - Which of the two install? ntsync in openSUSE - Which of the two install?u/prueba_hola•2 mo. agontsync in openSUSE - Which of the two install?Tech question
Passwordless wallet safety Passwordless wallet safetyu/_scotswolfie•2 mo. agoPasswordless wallet safetyTech questionHi,On my openSUSE laptop I'm using LUKS encryption for the root and swap partitions. When turning on the laptop, I enter the password to decrypt the disk.I'm considering enabling automatic login (I'm the sole user on this machine) to avoid having to enter two passwords. However, this means that the default KDE wallet won't be open automatically (as it's set to the same password as the account), and since it contains the WiFi password and other keys used right away, I'll still have to unlock it manually, which defeats the purpose.I'm thinking that it should be okay to set the wallet's password to empty string, because:when the laptop is power off, the disk is encryptedwhen I'm logged in, any application running on my system can access the data in the open wallet anywaywhen the laptop wakes up from sleep the screen is lockedAm I missing anything that would mean reduced security with this approach? I mean anything reasonable that a regular user should be concerned about, not some exotic attack vector, like accessing RAM externally while the laptop's in the sleep state 😂
Matlab segmentation fault on openSUSE tumblweed Matlab segmentation fault on openSUSE tumblweedu/RevolutionKooky7530•26 days agoMatlab segmentation fault on openSUSE tumblweedTech supportHi, everyone.I was trying to install MatLab on openSUSE, for the M3 competition, which gives a free temporary license for the software (this is my first time using Matlab).When i tried to install it, however, it kept getting segmentation faults. I used unzip, sudo ./install and kdesu to try and install it, all failed. I also tried using MPM, and whilst I could then install it, whenever it launched, it would launch for a second and then immediately crash with a segmentation fault. I also tried to use distrobox, but it also crashed with a segmentation fault. I also tried moving some of the libraries, and then trying to get Matlab to use my own libraries instead of its ones, and even trying to use a CLI interface as opposed to the GUI, but it still crashed with the segmentation fault.Does anyone have any suggestions as to what I should try next?I also can use a windows 7/10/11 virtual box (i have a ryzen 7 350AI CPU, radeon 860m igpu, and 32 gigs of ram), if the performance through that is good enough.Thanks in advance!(Note: I am running tumbleweed kernel level 6.18.5)
Tumbleweed Gnome Questions Tumbleweed Gnome Questionsu/Crib0802•2 mo. agoTumbleweed Gnome QuestionsTech questionHi, I installed Tumbleweed with GNOME and I find that GNOME is very bloated compared with as example Fedora .Here I have more that 7,8 games , maybe I forget to remove Games group correct me if Im wrong . But why this group is selected by default?Also I have this apps Packaque Updater,  Package sources, why ? Is not Gnome software sufficient why I need to have installed also this apps by default ?From other hand Yast is installed providing Yast software manangment and Yast software repositories .Default terminal why gnome-console ? I so basic without any customization , I can only change font and scrollback, sound nothing more ? Why not gnome-terminal or ptyxis are so better .Other issue I have in TW Gnome not show me all scale options in Display Settings only 100% and 200% . I need to enable it by command line using gsettings experimental feutures scale monitor framebuffer . I don't now this is the correct way but is works now and I scale to 125% .  In Fedora I have enabled this, also in Debian 13 Gnome .But now in some flatpak apps fonts are blury like Obsidian .Other issue, I installed TW with encryption both root and home btrfs after the dialog to decrypt ,  the first login screen where the user need to provide user password to login is starts very slow and I have black screen for almost 1min .For now I have only this issues, any recommendation for Gnome in TW ?edit: Also why Totem and not the new Showtime witch is the default video player in Gnome .edit: zypper is slow, I can understand for installing apps , but removing is need a lot of time also , with dnf this is almost instantly .Thanks
Arch user building a new distro - What do Fedora/openSUSE users value that I should consider? Arch user building a new distro - What do Fedora/openSUSE users value that I should consider?u/xAz00rg•1 mo. agoArch user building a new distro - What do Fedora/openSUSE users value that I should consider?Tech questionI'm primarily an Arch user building a new Arch-based distro (Peak Linux), but I want to understand what users of other distros value.Genuine question: What does Fedora/openSUSE do well that Arch doesn't?I know different distros have different philosophies:Arch: DIY, bleeding-edge, minimalFedora: Modern but stable, good defaults, Red Hat backingopenSUSE: YaST, snapshots, enterprise-readyWhat could Peak Linux learn from your distro?Better defaults out of the box?System management tools?Update/snapshot strategies?Not trying to copy or compete, just trying to understand what makes users happy with different distributions.If you've used Arch and prefer Fedora/openSUSE, what made you switch? What does it do better?Honest opinions appreciated. Trying to build something good, not just another Arch derivative.
Brave browser installed on Tumbleweed frequently 'locks' profile so i'm unable to open after login. Brave browser installed on Tumbleweed frequently 'locks' profile so i'm unable to open after login.u/LexiStarAngel•1 mo. agoBrave browser installed on Tumbleweed frequently 'locks' profile so i'm unable to open after login.Tech supportHi,I started using Brave browser installed via rpm about a month ago for more privacy. It's really stable, but I've noticed sometimes when I log into opensuse i'm unable to open the browser. I've got it working again using Google AI search's remedy, but is there anyway to stop this from re-occuring? I'm guessing it's a Brave browser and not Opensuse...I've posted the terminal readout below and the Google AI search response below.______________[4283:4283:0105/165011.971582:ERROR:chrome/browser/process_singleton_posix.cc:358] The profile appears to be in use by another Brave process (2553) on another computer (DESKTOP-7LEROT9). Brave has locked the profile so that it doesn't get corrupted. If you are sure that no other processes are using this profile, you can unlock the profile and relaunch Brave.[4283:4283:0105/165011.971629:ERROR:chrome/browser/ui/views/message_box_dialog.cc:199] Unable toshow message box: Brave - The profile appears to be in use by another Brave process (2553) on another computer (DESKTOP-7LEROT9). Brave has locked the profile so that it doesn't get corrupted. If you are sure that no other processes are using this profile, you can unlock the profile and relaunch Brave.______________________Google AI remedy:Step 1: Ensure Brave is not actually runningBefore deleting any files, make sure there are no hidden Brave processes still active. In your terminal, run:bashpkill -f braveStep 2: Remove the lock fileDelete theSingletonLockfile (which is often a symbolic link) from your Brave configuration folder.If you installed Brave via standard repositories (RPM):bashrm ~/.config/BraveSoftware/Brave-Browser/SingletonLock
OpenSUSE Leap repos and the Software website OpenSUSE Leap repos and the Software websiteu/chemistryGull•2 mo. agoOpenSUSE Leap repos and the Software websiteTech questionSorry for asking such a clueless question. I was trying to learn a bit about my system and one thing confuses me... Can someone please explain to me how repos work in openSUSE?Running Leap 15.6 on a server (old laptop, no DE). I usedzypper reposto show what repos are in use.Now i wanted to know from what repo i have installed rclone from (as an example).zypper info rclonegives me "Update repository of openSUSE Backports", so therepo-backports-update.Now i went tohttps://software.opensuse.org/package/rcloneto check what the website says. For rclone on Leap 15.6 it does only list "experimental" packages (i think i have only seen packages labeled "official" for tumbleweed,what is up with that?). In the experimental tab there are only "isv:OpenCloud" and "network" listed. I dont see any hint about an "Backport" repo.I have also foundhttps://download.opensuse.org/update/leap/15.6/backports/which seems to be a place where all the packages from the backports repo reside? Tho this site seems not to be meant to be a place where you look for packages likehttps://software.opensuse.org.I have the feeling i amdrasticallymisunderstanding something here, but i cant wrap my head around how it actually works. Any info would be appreciated :)
Anybody has OpenRGB working on Tumbleweed? Anybody has OpenRGB working on Tumbleweed?u/lI_Simo_Hayha_Il•2 mo. agoAnybody has OpenRGB working on Tumbleweed?How to… !It was working fine on Fedora 42 with the same hardware, so this is not the reason.I assume it has to do with loaded drivers, or security, since it is stricter than Fedora.I asked ChatGPT but the solution seems too complex, so I am hoping there is something easier.The error I am getting is this:[i2c_smbus_linux] Failed to read i2c device PCI device ID WARNING: One or more I2C/SMBus interfaces failed to initialize. RGB DRAM modules and some motherboards' onboard RGB lighting will not be available without I2C/SMBus. On Linux, this is usually because the i2c-dev module is not loaded.  You must load the i2c-dev module along with the correct i2c driver for your motherboard.  This is usually i2c-piix4 for AMD systems and i2c-i801 for Intel systems.I did try to load i2c drivers/modules, but didn't work.
Media check fails on Leap 16.0, Slowroll and Tumbleweed Media check fails on Leap 16.0, Slowroll and Tumbleweedu/realkikinovak•2 mo. agoMedia check fails on Leap 16.0, Slowroll and TumbleweedHi,I've been fiddling with OpenSUSE for the past month or so, in a handful of local VMs and on a spare sandbox PC in my office. I gave Tumbleweed and Slowroll a spin, and now I'm taking a peek under the hood of Leap 16.0.Here's a weird detail: every installation went fine, but when I try theMedia Checkoption, it fails systematically.I'm a bit paranoid for installation media integrity since I tried to install Slackware 7.1 from a poorly burned installation CD two and a half decades ago. In my day job I'm a RHEL clone user, and the first time I install either Rocky Linux or AlmaLinux from a newly written USB disk, I always choose theTest this media and installoption.Any suggestions ?
Tumbleweed as a Linux training platform - practical considerations Tumbleweed as a Linux training platform - practical considerationsu/realkikinovak•2 mo. agoTumbleweed as a Linux training platform - practical considerationsHi,I'm a professional Linux trainer living and working in South France. Since 2009 I've published five books about Linux for the french editor Eyrolles. These books were mostly based on various RHEL clones, mainly because this family of distributions offers a support cycle of ten years per release. If you release printed documentation, perennity is a serious consideration.In a nutshell, here's my approach for the beginner's course:Install a vanilla Linux distribution.Learn the command-line basics on this installation.Use the newly-learned skills to install a more fine-tuned desktop and/or server.I'm facing a problem with my choice of RHEL clones (Rocky Linux or AlmaLinux), and here's why.RHEL 9.x clones are x86_64-v2 only. That's not a big problem, but there's still some legacy hardware around there that won't boot this.RHEL 10.x clones are x86_64-v3 only, and that's a serious limitation. Most of the hardware that's around on our local university campus will not work with this.AlmaLinux does have an inofficial x86_64-v2 spin for version 10, but that comes with a series of showstopper limitations.I'm currently trying to wrap my head around this Catch 22, and I'm seriously considering moving to OpenSUSE Tumbleweed as a training platform.It supports legacy hardware with x86_64-v1 CPUs.On the other hand, it also supports brand-new hardware (contrary to various RHEL clones).Even if it's a moving target, there's some perennity to it. Except for a few details, the installer has pretty much been the same for the last two decades, as far as I remember.Or is it? As far as I can tell, OpenSUSE Leap recently switched to a brand-new installer called Agama or something. I didn't test it, just saw a few screenshots.So here's my first question. How long do you think the current OpenSUSE installer will remain on Tumbleweed before being replaced by this new installer ? If you're a member of the OpenSUSE team and you're reading this, please take a peek in your crystal ball and let me know what you see.Cheers from the sunny South of France,Niki
Help Installing Enlightenment Help Installing Enlightenmentu/ReflectionMain9755•25 days agoHelp Installing EnlightenmentTech supportHello everyone, I am a total OpenSUSE and Linux beginner and I’m stuck trying to install Enlightenment. I may be in over my head with this, but I was able to install SUSE on my own, so I think I am capable of doing this with just a little guidance.I’ll first get into the wall that I’m at right now and then mention other potential blunders I may have made before this point.I was following this guide for OpenSUSE on the official Enlightenment website, specifically the “Installing from Packaged Source” sectionhttp://www.enlightenment.org/docs/distros/opensuse-start.mdI was able to get to step 4, but now I have no idea what to do. I’m not 100 percent sure if I’m correctly “cd-ing” into the efl file. I type “cd [file name]” and it seems like it does something. But then I try to input the ./configure command and it says “no such file or directory.” If I put in “make” it says “no targets specified and no makefile found.” When I put in “sudo make install” it says “no rule to make target ‘install’”I tried to research what was going on, but I couldn’t find a clear answer, especially because there are few sources that discuss this specific process (thats why im here).I would appreciate any insight or aid.But lastly, it would be fair to mention some other potential issues as I was trying to install. In the first step I was able to get the install file but the command to get the sha256 would always give me a “404: not found.” Because of that, and this is probably naughty, but I did skip to the next step. After going through the whole process or verifying my OpenSUSE install I just assumed this install would most likely be working. But maybe I’m wrong and this was the original sin.Moving on to my next potential sin. When doing step 3, I was able to install every dependency but got 2 errors. Those errors were with installing “lua51-luajit-devel” and “xorg-x11-devel,” the console both saying they could not be found. Again, I just moved on - sorry if I’ve just been sounding absolutely clueless this whole time.So yes, this is all the info. Again, I thank anyone who can help me. I love the look of Enlightenment and getting it to work would make me the happiest man on earth.Have a good day/night!
D3D12CreateDeviceFailed error D3D12CreateDeviceFailed erroru/Idk__0__•23 days agoD3D12CreateDeviceFailed errorHello I am a new user of linux opensuse tumbleweed :)Since I started using the system, I encountered the same problem with some games (especially the resident evil series). Sometimes the game works perfectly, but other times (often) I face this issue where the game doesn't run a window with this phrase appears (D3D12CreateDeviceFailed) it asks me to restart my computer but that doesn’t solve the problem . I tried changing the Proton version several times, but nothing changed. I also tried using DirectX 11, and I updated the system, but nothing changed. These were the solutions I found on the internet while searching, but none of them worked… I really don't know because the game works sometimes and then won’t open sometimes. Please, if any of you know the solution to the problem, let me know.I use steam to game and my gpu is ASUS PRIME GeForce RTX 5070 Ti if that’s helps
Google Antigravity IDE on Tumbleweed Google Antigravity IDE on Tumbleweedu/megatux2•1 mo. agoGoogle Antigravity IDE on TumbleweedAnyone was able to install the RPM package for Antigravity on Tumbleweed? (https://antigravity.google/download/linux). Thx!
Tumbleweed: No (functional) network shares in KDE Dolphin after recent update Tumbleweed: No (functional) network shares in KDE Dolphin after recent updateu/ZwiebelLegende•2 mo. agoTumbleweed: No (functional) network shares in KDE Dolphin after recent updateTech supportHello!I did my weekly "zypper dup" on my tumbleweed machine and after that the network shares (bookmarked shares and looking for shares) in KDE Dolphin doesn't work anymore.Anything officially broken? Or does anyone else have this problem after a recent update?
dist-upgrade breaks NVIDIA drivers (Tumbleweed  20251231-0 -> 20260113-0) dist-upgrade breaks NVIDIA drivers (Tumbleweed  20251231-0 -> 20260113-0)u/GWigWam•27 days agodist-upgrade breaks NVIDIA drivers (Tumbleweed  20251231-0 -> 20260113-0)Tech supportHi all. I'm new to OpenSUSE (and to Linux in general), I got everything up and running, but it seems I can't upgrade without my GPU drivers breaking (2nd monitor not working;lsmod | grep nvidiashows nothing).I got the drivers from the NVIDIA repo, here's a full repo list:1 | NVIDIA:repo-non-free | 992 | openSUSE:repo-non-oss | 993 | openSUSE:repo-openh264 | 994 | openSUSE:repo-oss | 997 | openSUSE:update-tumbleweed | 998 | packman-essentials | 90Love that I'm just able to rollback with snapper like nothing happened, but I'm worried I won't be able to upgrade in future if I don't figure out how.Do I need to lock some packages maybe (locking nothing atm)? Or must I wait for an update from NVIDIA (nothing new since 2025-10-21 if I'm not mistaken)? Or is there some other trick I'm missing?GPU: RTX 5060 TIKernel Version: 6.18.2-1-default (64-bit)Secure boot offUpdate: uninstalled all nvidia packages and then installed the non-open drivers `nvidia-driver-G06-kmp-meta`, but that doesn't seem to work either.inxi -G Graphics:   Device-1: NVIDIA GB206 \[GeForce RTX 5060 Ti\] driver: N/A  lsmod | grep -e nvidia  <nothing>Guess I'll just rollback and wait for new open drivers to be released. Thanks for the help everyone!
[ 0.886207] [ T1] Loaded X.509 cert 'openSUSE Secure Boot Signkey: [ 0.886207] [ T1] Loaded X.509 cert 'openSUSE Secure Boot Signkey:u/Thermawrench•2 mo. ago[ 0.886207] [ T1] Loaded X.509 cert 'openSUSE Secure Boot Signkey:How to… !I did sudo dmesg | grep Secure to check trusted boot. Does the output (in title) mean secure boot is enabled?
EFI Stub Warning: Failed to measure data for event 1: 0x80..0b EFI Stub Warning: Failed to measure data for event 1: 0x80..0bu/elyisgreat•2 mo. agoEFI Stub Warning: Failed to measure data for event 1: 0x80..0b
Should I try Btrfs? Should I try Btrfs?u/H4zzard1010•2 mo. agoShould I try Btrfs?I'm currently using Fedora with ext4 but want to switch to openSUSE Tumbleweed.  I notice that like Fedora, the oS installer likes Btrfs as the default.  I have always avoided it because of fears of instability, slower read and write speeds, and wearing my SSD.  Now though I'm toying with the idea of it, I especially like the idea of rollbacks and compression.  Before I commit though, I wanted to get some opinions of if there is substance to any of these fears.  Is corruption or crashes a more common occurrence with Btrfs? Are speeds similar to those of ext4? Will my SSD die faster than normal (WD Blue SN580 for context)? Any help is greatly appreciated
Is this how it should be? Is this how it should be?u/Party_Dinner_1718•2 mo. agoIs this how it should be?Solved
Tumbleweed – Review of the week 2025/50 Tumbleweed – Review of the week 2025/50u/bmwiedemann•2 mo. agoTumbleweed – Review of the week 2025/50New versionhttps://dominique.leuenberger.net/blog/2025/12/tumbleweed-review-of-the-week-2025-50/
Myrlyn in console Myrlyn in consoleu/rafaellinuxuser•2 mo. agoMyrlyn in consoleI really like Myrlyn, especially because it allows you to upgrade Tumbleweed without using the command line. However, it doesn't look like there will be a console version, unlike YaST. One of YaST's most important features is its availability on both the desktop and the console. Are we openSUSE users going to lose that?
How do you make the tty not appear before sddm loads? How do you make the tty not appear before sddm loads?u/Deathscyther1HD•2 mo. agoHow do you make the tty not appear before sddm loads?How to… ?Before sddm is finished loading, the tty is shown for a moment, I'm on OpenSUSE Leap 16.0 and I just added splash to the cmdline to enable the bootanimation, other than that I haven't changed anything yet and I have no idea how to solve this and never had this issue previoudlyHere's a video of what I'm talking about:https://imgur.com/a/HmGpdbB
Printer works but scanner does not Printer works but scanner does notu/iurie5100•2 mo. agoPrinter works but scanner does notHey there, i need your help here. I have this HP Laser MFP 135r that i've been using for 2 years. It worked well until... well it didn't. For context, i did a clean install of openSUSE Tumbleweed and i installed the ULD drivers from HP's website. Turns out the printer works, but the scanner doesn't. Even YaST cant detect it, neither any kind of software. What do i do?P.S. this is one of those HP printers that have Samsung firmware on them.edit: so looks like mine was a unique case because libxml.so.2 was somehow not installed on my laptop. I installed it from an OBS repo and now i'm good to go.
Packman vs. Packman Essentials on OpenSUSE Tumbleweed ? Packman vs. Packman Essentials on OpenSUSE Tumbleweed ?u/realkikinovak•2 mo. agoPackman vs. Packman Essentials on OpenSUSE Tumbleweed ?Hi,I'm a seasoned Linux user (two and a half decades of experience) but I'm new to OpenSUSE Tumbleweed.Here's my current repository setup:# zypper repos --priority # | Alias      | Name       | Enabled | GPG Check | Refresh | Priority --+------------+------------+---------+-----------+---------+------- 1 | anydesk    | anydesk    | Yes     | (r ) Yes  | Yes     |  100 2 | chrome     | chrome     | Yes     | (r ) Yes  | Yes     |  100 3 | essentials | essentials | Yes     | (r ) Yes  | Yes     |   90 4 | non-oss    | non-oss    | Yes     | (r ) Yes  | Yes     |   99 5 | nvidia     | nvidia     | Yes     | (r ) Yes  | Yes     |  100 6 | oss        | oss        | Yes     | (r ) Yes  | Yes     |   99 7 | updates    | updates    | Yes     | (r ) Yes  | Yes     |   99There's a couple packages I'd need that are not to be found in any official or third-party repository. Like a command-line only version of MPlayer, or OBS Studio.I wonder if I should move from Packman Essentials to plain Packman. Before doing that, I'd like to ask the seasoned Tumbleweed users among you. What can I expect ? Smooth experience ? Breakage ?Cheers,Niki
crash log and a pet peeve about supervisor app on Linux crash log and a pet peeve about supervisor app on Linuxu/lbl_ye•2 mo. agocrash log and a pet peeve about supervisor app on LinuxTech questionHi, I'm a new Tumbleweed user with KDE Plasma, recently I run some python programs and I didn't think about memory usage (Advent of Code ..) and soon it reached RAM limits and everything froze (except the mouse pointer moving at times) and I had to power off and rebootI'm 100% sure the freeze was due to memory exhaustion but when I researched it there is nothing in logs (journalctl)is it normal ? are there other logs I could look at ?as a side note I see that modern OS crash often or they become easily unusable by a runaway app (think a program that uses 100% cpu and bogs everything down)when OS development started many many years ago the idea was to have a supervisor program that manages all other programs and gives them a share of cpu/disk etc.now we as users have no control of the machine !wouldn't it be possible to have always running a special Linux supervisor program and when something is wrong , then with a key combination (even a ctrl-alt-del :D  or wherever) bring it in foreground at top priority and responsiveness (having cpu priority and a reserved RAM area) while freezing everything else, and then view what's running , what cpu and ram and IO did in the last minute and be able to kill it and restore the system without power off and reboot ?why don't have this in 2025 ? ?
GDM scaling Problem GDM scaling Problemu/S1e0rdk•2 mo. agoGDM scaling ProblemHi,I have a ThinkPad laptop with a small 13-inch screen running Tumbleweed. I have enabled fractional scaling at 125% using gsettings, but GDM is still displayed at 100%.I have tried several guides and even created a monitors.xml file, but I haven’t been able to get GDM to scale to 125%.Please help me.
Kwin and Wayland Keeps Crashing Randomly, Takes Too Long to Wake Up Kwin and Wayland Keeps Crashing Randomly, Takes Too Long to Wake Upu/Miserable-School-665•2 mo. agoKwin and Wayland Keeps Crashing Randomly, Takes Too Long to Wake UpTech supportHi, I got a 2-in-1 laptop with openSUSE Leap 16.0 and KDE Plasma on Wayland.I have a very significant stability issue with KWin, KDE, Plasmashell and Wayland. Both keep randomly crashing. I've noticed that pressing the stylus button too fast might trigger it sometimes, but it's the only cause I could find.It drops to a black screen while running and restarts KWin/Wayland in a few seconds, or wakes up as crashed.The crash event viewer says it failed to extract meaningful data every time.Even when it's not crashed, it takes too long to wake up from sleep—about 20–30 seconds.I have 16 GB of swap, and when it crashes, I generally use about 5 GB.Here is my system info:Operating System: openSUSE Leap 16.0KDE Plasma Version: 6.4.2KDE Frameworks Version: 6.16.0Qt Version: 6.9.1Kernel Version: 6.12.0-160000.7-default (64-bit)Graphics Platform: WaylandProcessors: 12 × 13th Gen Intel® Core™ i5-13420HMemory: 16 GiB of RAM (15.3 GiB usable)Graphics Processor: Intel® GraphicsManufacturer: LENOVOProduct Name: 83KXSystem Version: IdeaPad 5 2-in-1 14IRH9
Cannot use hyfetch as it's searching for the existence of macchina which I cannot (?) install Cannot use hyfetch as it's searching for the existence of macchina which I cannot (?) installu/GenderlessMarsian•2 mo. agoCannot use hyfetch as it's searching for the existence of macchina which I cannot (?) installTech supportHi!~ As part of my customizing of OpenSUSE Tumbleweed which I use on my desktop I decided to install hyfetch, a fork (?) of neofetch, to display the OpenSUSE logo in Pride Flag coloring. I usedsudo zypper in hyfetchto install it - though theinstructions on githubmentioned of package name python311-hyfetch, I assumed this must be the correct package. But then when I tried running the "hyfetch" command and going through the config dialogue I ended up with this error:Error: failed to create configCaused by:0: failed to select backend1: failed to get macchina path2: failed to check existence of `macchina` in `PATH`3: failed to check existence of file "/root/.local/share/pnpm/macchina"4: failed to get metadata for "/root/.local/share/pnpm/macchina"5: Permission denied (os error 13)Confused, and not having been even given the option to select a backend, I tried to install macchina as per theofficial instructions- to no avail:No provider for 'macchina' found.It seems macchina's not in OpenSUSE's repos (?), but why should I need it, if hyfetch is an actual fully fledged fork? And why should it need to check inpnpm'sfolder for theroot useranyways?! As a last attempt, I tried install neowofetch, the no-pride-flag version of hyfetch and runninghyfetch -b neofetchto set it as hyfetch's backend. The result was the same error as above.How to get hyfetch to work? Should I post an issue on GitHub or am I doing smthn stupid? I'm disappointed >-∩-<
nVidia 6.18 drivers released (G06, G07) nVidia 6.18 drivers released (G06, G07)u/MiukuS•2 mo. agonVidia 6.18 drivers released (G06, G07)This post only concerns Tumbleweed.As promised, I was going to make a post when they fixed the drivers and they have.| nvidia-open-driver-G06-signed-cuda-kmp-default    | package | 580.105.08_k6.18.0_2-3.1    | x86_64 | repo-oss | nvidia-open-driver-G06-signed-kmp-default         | package | 580.105.08_k6.18.0_2-3.1    | x86_64 | repo-oss | nvidia-open-driver-G07-signed-cuda-kmp-default    | package | 590.44.01_k6.18.0_2-1.1     | x86_64 | repo-oss | nvidia-open-driver-G07-signed-kmp-default         | package | 590.44.01_k6.18.0_2-1.1     | x86_64 | repo-ossSo now you can remove the lock and dup freely.And before you ask, I do not know which GPUs the G07 supports but I'd say don't try it on anything older than maybe 3k or 4k series if you're willing to try the bleeding edge drivers (beta).G06 = Normal stable drivers.G07 = Beta drivers.Edit:As peru/cfeck_kdeyou'll need an nVidia GPU with Turing for the G07 drivers to work ( think nVidia Geforce 2000 onwards ) [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turing_(microarchitecture)]Edit2:As peru/MorningCareful/it seems the G07 userland files are broken. You are adviced to make sure you install G06 as to get a fully functional driver set.
Mouse extra buttons don't work when using 2.4GHz Mouse extra buttons don't work when using 2.4GHzu/8070alejandro•2 mo. agoMouse extra buttons don't work when using 2.4GHzTech supportMouse extra buttons don't work when using 2.4GHzr/linuxhardware•2 mo. agoMouse extra buttons don't work when using 2.4GHzI have a Mars Gaming MMSK wireless mouse. It has wired, 2.4GHz and Bluetooth modes. The mouse has the regular two right, left and middle click, and it also features 5 extra buttons.The issue is that when using the 2.4GHz mode, the extra buttons are not recognized, but they work when using wired mode.Bluetooth mode does not work altogether, but I don't mind.It happens both in my Bazzite and openSUSE machines. It worked under Windows on the same machine that is now Bazzite.Any idea how to make the extra buttons work when using wireless 2.4GHz mode?2upvotes·4comments
Broken zypper Broken zypperu/Deep_Necessary5600•2 mo. agoBroken zypperSolvedSo when running zypper version it returns Neither/usr/bindnf5, /usr/bin/dnf, nor /usr/bin/zypper could be found. it happ while debloating so probably deleted somehow and I can not reinstall.
Temporarily disable Snapper ? Temporarily disable Snapper ?u/realkikinovak•2 mo. agoTemporarily disable Snapper ?Hi,I'm currently writing a series of bone-headed post-installation scripts for OpenSUSE Tumbleweed:https://gitlab.com/kikinovak/opensuse-desktopI'm using the default setup with Btrfs and Snapper. As far as I understand, everytime I usezypperto install or remove a package, Snapper automagically creates a filesystem snapshot under the hood.The problem here is that some of my scripts are looping through lists of packages and then install them one by one. Which means every single operation spawns a filesystem snapshot.I'd like to avoid this kind of resource-hungry overkill. Is there a way to temporarily disable Snapper? Ideally, runningzypperfrom within one of my scripts should not spawn any filesystem snapshot.Any suggestions ?
Error message titled "wrong digest" every time I try installing Error message titled "wrong digest" every time I try installingu/mafia_guy_•2 mo. agoError message titled "wrong digest" every time I try installing
DMS 1.0 "The Dark Knight" Released on OpenSUSE DMS 1.0 "The Dark Knight" Released on OpenSUSEu/Purian23•2 mo. agoDMS 1.0 "The Dark Knight" Released on OpenSUSE
Why make separate Live ISO? Why make separate Live ISO?u/ray591•2 mo. agoWhy make separate Live ISO?Tech question
Upgrading from Leap Micro 5.5 to Micro OS Upgrading from Leap Micro 5.5 to Micro OSu/NoRequirement5796•2 mo. agoUpgrading from Leap Micro 5.5 to Micro OSTech questionHello,I have an old machine running Leap Micro 5.5 and the CPU is too old (AMD E-300) to run Leap 16 / Leap Micro 6.2.Can I upgrade directly from Leap Micro 5.5 to Micro OS or should I start clean?
Raspberry Pi 5 + TW + RAID5 Raspberry Pi 5 + TW + RAID5u/rotacni_anuloid•2 mo. agoRaspberry Pi 5 + TW + RAID5Tech questionHello, has anyone tried to create and use RAID level 5 on RPi5? I got myself M.2 adapter to 6×SATA, played around with compatibility settings for allowing to successfully use it and its working great. I can access any of those 6 devices (all of them 2TB SSDs) and use them in 12TB RAID 0 pool without any hiccups.But I desire RAID 5 (4 + 1 for parity + 1 spare) which gives me kernel panic right after creating or mounting any filesystem (I tried XFS, EXT4 and BTRFs). The same happens with LVM configuration emulating RAID 5. RAID 6 also gives instant kernel panic.What's more annoying, everything works on Raspberry Pi OS, therefore it's not HW issue.TW is updated to newest release. Kernel loads moduleraid456md: resync of RAID array md127 EXT4-fs (md127p1): mounted filesystem [UUID + ext4 info] dw_axi_dmac_platform 1f00188000.dma: dma_sync_wait: timeout! Kernel panic - not syncing: async_tx_quiesce: DMA error waiting for transaction
What is the difference between the GUI Discover Update and Terminal flatpak update What is the difference between the GUI Discover Update and Terminal flatpak updateu/iclonethefirst•2 mo. agoWhat is the difference between the GUI Discover Update and Terminal flatpak updateTech questionIn many guides for tumbleweed it's said that you shouldn't update the flatpaks through Discover because it breaks things. Why is that exactly? Isn't it just running "sudo flatpak update" in the background?Second, how would I disable the discover update completely? Reason is, I press on it sometimes out of habit and now my terminal displays the following output when trying to update flatpaks; have to fix it now I guess.I'm running Tumbleweed 20251205 with KDE 6.5.3 and Kernel 6.18.0-1-default(64-bit).Looking for updates…  Info: runtime org.freedesktop.Platform branch 23.08 is end-of-life, with reason:    org.freedesktop.Platform 23.08 is no longer receiving fixes and security updates. Please update to a supported runtime version. Info: applications using this runtime:    com.github.zadam.trilium  Info: runtime org.freedesktop.Platform.GL.default branch 23.08-extra is end-of-life, with reason:    org.freedesktop.Platform 23.08 is no longer receiving fixes and security updates. Please update to a supported runtime version. Info: applications using this extension:    com.github.zadam.trilium  Info: runtime org.freedesktop.Platform.GL.default branch 23.08 is end-of-life, with reason:    org.freedesktop.Platform 23.08 is no longer receiving fixes and security updates. Please update to a supported runtime version. Info: applications using this extension:    com.github.zadam.trilium  Nothing to do.
Leap16 on AM5/b650 Leap16 on AM5/b650u/tobinfrost77•2 mo. agoLeap16 on AM5/b650Tech questionCant install opensuse leap 16 on msi b650 wifi with amd ryzen 5 7500f? Checked instalation media.    But installer Stuck In same place. On am4/5 5600 problem doesnt exist.
Should I use GRUB2-EFI or GRUB2-BLS? Should I use GRUB2-EFI or GRUB2-BLS?u/CommonGrounds8201•2 mo. agoShould I use GRUB2-EFI or GRUB2-BLS?How to… !This post is going to be long as I will explain my thought process for what lead me to formulate this question.To start, I would like to thank everyone who suggested the “NOMODESET” workaround for installing through the GUI, it did the trick. Now, on to the post.For some relevant technical details, both Windows and Linux are installed on separate physical SSDs. No single drive dual boot.Based on this news article:https://news.opensuse.org/2025/11/13/tw-grub2-bls/The OpenSUSE Team have chosen to replace the classic GRUB2 EFI with this new one. From my understanding, this means that the traditional way of configuring the GRUB boot loader no longer apply here (you will see why I mention this below).When I installed my system, I noticed that both the Windows Boot Manager entry, and the UEFI Settings entry were both missing, and in their place, the default OpenSUSE boot entry, and a bunch of Snapper Snapshots were listed.No problem, I say, I knew a bit about modifying grub configuration since I have done this in the past in similar circumstances, all I needed to do was open up a shell and run “os-prober”… it didn’t work, as the command wasn’t even recognized because a package called “grub2-common” (if my memory serves me well) was missing. No big deal, one install later and I run that same os-prober command again. It didn’t work, but this time, I get an error saying that a flag needed to enable the use of this tool was missing, so I had to edit /etc/default/grub to allow this, by appending a single flag (I think it was GRUB_USE_OS_PROBER or similar) and upon regenerating grub configuration, the command ran and listed Windows Boot Manager, but when I go to YaST to check the entries - nothing. Not even the UEFI Firmware Settings entry is present. It’s as if os-prober did nothing. Why?Now, this is where my next question comes in, what exactly is those 1 boot? I ask since according to the above article, that’s all this version of GRUB is, a patched version that allows for these types of boots, and also lists various changes to the way you configure GRUB and add boot entries. Does this mean os-prober is not supported with GRUB-BLS?I didn’t even notice this version existed until after I installed and paid attention to it (I genuinely was not aware), so now I am thinking to just reinstall but with GRUB2-EFI instead. My only point of hesitation is that according to the installer if I choose this GRUB version I will loose TPM2 and PIN unlock for my LUKS encrypted drive, which I would still like to have for the extra security.So, what do you guys suggest I do? What even is the purpose of this new GRUB2-BLS version? And why does os-prober not work even after explicitly enabling it? Also, one comment on another thread suggested that to add Windows as a bootable entry, I must mount it and add it manually, but is this really the only way? There must be a simpler way to do this, right?Anyhow, I appreciate all of your support, once again. I love Linux, and learning is fun, so I welcome all constructive criticism! :)
USB Media does NOT Boot USB Media does NOT Bootu/CommonGrounds8201•2 mo. agoUSB Media does NOT BootHow to… !My circumstance is not far away from a typical OpenSUSE installation procedure. I created the bootable USB two times - one time using Rufus, and another using Balena Etcher. Both times, the laptop failed to boot from the USB. Here is verbatim what happened:Plugged in USB and booted from it, GRUB bootloader with splash screen showed up, I select the install option and click Enter.The distribution begins loading the kernel and initial RAMDISK, after which I see green bars at the bottom of my screen begin to fill up, with an action indicator in green at the centre of the screen.Black screen with a static line (might be a hyphen or underscore), and nothing happens from there.Some considerations:Secure Boot is disabled.RUFUS wrote the USB image in DD mode saying the type of ISO could not be written in any other way. As a side note, I did read on the official guide that DD image mode may cause problems with specific ThinkPad models but since I do not have a ThinkPad I did not think much about this.My laptop is a Dell G15 5530 with an i9-13900HX and an RTX 4060 Mobile GPU.I used the offline installer x86_64 DVD ISO.Does anyone have specific troubleshooting steps I could follow? Or a guide to any man page I could read to understand this phenomenon? I have installed this distribution before, so I am familiar with YAST and whatnot, but perhaps this hardware is not suited?Thanks again for your support! :)
Bluetooth Keyboard takes seconds to connect (Logitech K380s) Bluetooth Keyboard takes seconds to connect (Logitech K380s)u/Hurizen•2 mo. agoBluetooth Keyboard takes seconds to connect (Logitech K380s)Tech supportHello everyone,I have a Logitech Pebble Keyboard (K380s) and a Pebble Mouse (M350s).They both use Bluetooth, but I'm having a specific issue with the keyboard:Resuming from sleep:The keyboard only connects a few secondsafterI press a button.Turning power off/on:If I turn the keyboard off and back on, it connects automatically after a few seconds (no button press needed).Restarting bluetooth.service:It connects automatically after a few seconds without me pressing anything.The mouse, however, ALWAYS works immediately. This doesn't happen on Windows, where the keyboard works instantly just like the mouse.I tried changing some settings in/etc/bluetooth/input.conf(likeFastConnectable = trueandAutoEnable=true), but nothing worked. I also don't see any relevant errors injournalctlordmesg.I know this isn't a critical problem, but I want to use it as an exercise to see if I can solve a technical issue in Linux.What else should I look for? Thanks for your help!
Worse performance with Wine Wayland Driver Worse performance with Wine Wayland Driveru/HanniLiger•2 mo. agoWorse performance with Wine Wayland DriverHey everyone!I'm using a freshly installed and fully updated Slowroll on a KDE Wayland Session on a Xeon E3-1240 v5, 16 GB RAM and an RX 480 8GB. My Steam is running natively with Proton GE 10-25.I was playing around with the PROTON_ENABLE_WAYLAND variable to see if it makes any improvements in framerate. (Basically just opening a few games, loading into it and just standing there so I have a steady scenario.) I reset the Mangohud FPS benchmark and let it sit for a minute. With all the games I tested I noticed a slight setback if Proton was using the Wine Wayland driver (we're talking 3-10 fps here).I repeated the same tests on Fedora 43 on the same system with the same games and settings and native Wayland did improve the framerate there.Any idea what's going on?
Unable to use bluetooth speaker in 'Headphones' mode, can only use Headset (HFP Mode) Unable to use bluetooth speaker in 'Headphones' mode, can only use Headset (HFP Mode)u/amradoofamash•2 mo. agoUnable to use bluetooth speaker in 'Headphones' mode, can only use Headset (HFP Mode)How to… ?Hello guys,I've been using openSUSE for a while now, and I am having trouble with my bluetooth speaker, (aSoundcore Select 2), this speaker has two working modes:Headset mode, which produces terrible phone call-like sound while using the micHeadphone mode, which produces the nice 'usual' boomy sound.Problem: When I connect it to my phone, a macbook, friends' phones, it plays well. But when I connect to my Tumbleweed, it connects, shows the two modes but when I switch to headphones mode, it goes silent and media stops playing on Spotify and YouTube on Chrome. It only plays on the lousy sounding Headset mode.I downloaded several live ISOs yesterday to test for potential driver issues.debian-live-13.2.0-amd64-gnome.isoFedora-KDE-Desktop-Live-43-1.6.x86_64.isolmde-7-cinnamon-64bit.isoopenSUSE-Tumbleweed-GNOME-Live-x86_64-Snapshot20251205-Media.isoIn all the other three live distros, the speaker works as it should, switching between the nice expected speaker sound and the lousy call-like HFP quality.On tumbleweed live ISO and my system, when I switch to the Headphone mode, there is no audio output.I had never noticed this as I had never connected it to this computer before, just my phone when I am on the go.Any assistance would be appreciated. Here are some details about my system.PC: Lenovo ThinkPad T480sCPU: Intel® Core™ i7-8550U × 8RAM: 16.0 GBGPU: Intel® UHD Graphics 620 (KBL GT2)Firmware: N24ET81W (1.56)OS: openSUSE Tumbleweed.Kernel: Linux 6.17.9-1-defaultDE: Gnome 49Display Server: Wayland❯ pactl info | grep "Server Name"Server Name: PulseAudio (on PipeWire 1.5.84)❯ gnome-shell --versionGNOME Shell 49.2Additionally, I have tried some tweaks like disabling the HFP Profile in/etc/bluetooth/main.conf, unpairing, rebooting then pairing again, but it did not work.EDIT: Grammar
libxml2 is now officially unmaintained libxml2 is now officially unmaintainedu/jungfred•2 mo. agolibxml2 is now officially unmaintainedNewsr/linux•2 mo. agolibxml2 is now officially unmaintained846upvotes•254comments
Why does my startup screen look like this? Why does my startup screen look like this?u/JoiBoie•2 mo. agoWhy does my startup screen look like this?
Leap or Slowroll? Leap or Slowroll?u/dihmer•2 mo. agoLeap or Slowroll?I've been an openSUSE Leap user for ~10 years. I've used TW in the meantime, but found the number of changes annoying. I tend to have a ton of packages on my machine (C++ dev, Python dev, LaTeX, and many more) and ended up getting 5-10k package updates a month. Even with the good over-all quality of TW, that meant a break-and-rollback (thank you, snapper!) every three or four months. And I want my PC to "just work".Now, I bought a new, used Lenovo laptop. I think about giving Slowroll a try. All in all, rolling releases do make some sense, I think. And most development is done in some form of venv, devcontainer, whatever anyway. On the other hand: Leap has served me just fine for years, and if it's broken, don't fix it?!What are good ressources I should consider making my mind?
A Fedora update bricked my laptop for the last time. A Fedora update bricked my laptop for the last time.u/Rukuss1•2 mo. agoA Fedora update bricked my laptop for the last time.Last update on Fedora hard locked my laptop, had to open it up and disconnect battery to get it back. 3rd time over the last year a Fedora update broke the system.TW currently installing, first time trying OpenSUSE. Any tips for a new guy?
New old games New old gamesu/bmwiedemann•2 mo. agoNew old gamesNew stuffNew old gamesr/openSUSE_Slowroll•2 mo. agoNew old gamesHi, I spent last week onhttps://hackweek.opensuse.org/25/projects/compile-gamesto bring back plenty old FLOSS games. And most also now build for Slowroll.To use them, you do e.g.sudo zypper ar --refresh https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/games/openSUSE_Slowroll/ games ; sudo zypper in heroes-tron ; heroesIf you cannot find the executable, you can have a look atrpm -ql heroes-tron | grep bin/Which of thesegamesdo you like?18upvotes·5comments
Mixed feelings with snapper Mixed feelings with snapperu/epegar•2 mo. agoMixed feelings with snapperSolvedI started using openSuse around 6 months ago. I tried it before, and while I always liked it, I never managed to feel confident with it. Most of my experience with Linux is with Ubuntu-based distributions such as Kubuntu and KDE Neon.Anyway, so far it has been a great ride, although to be fair, I am not using a lot of advanced features, I am mostly playing games or web-browsing, and I have also done a bit of coding. But that is great in my opinion, I never had the need to mess too much with the system. Everything worked fine (mouse, keyboard, headset, monitor), the AMD GPU drivers come with the kernel, everything just works perfectly.Until yesterday, which, was my most intense and interesting experience with OpenSuse so far, and I must say I have mixed feelings.What happened: I installed all the updates (which included kernel and many others) and when I launched one game, it crashed automatically.What I did was to open journalctl (one of the nice things), and try to find information about the problem.I tried to use snapper (through Yast Snapshot), unfortunately, in the middle of rolling back, the computer restarted, maybe due to the changes in the kernel version. I tried rolling back 3 times and I got different results each time:first time everything was fine. But the game kept crashingsecond time the bootloader kept pointing to the newer version of the kernel, but that version had been properly rolled back so it didn't work. I bypassed by selecting the second entrylast time the x-system was not working. I solved by reinstalling the updates with zypper in the command line sessionIn the end I did the following:reinstalled all the updates back, which brought back the stable system with the game crashing.Then uninstalled mangohud (a program that shows CPU and GPU stats while playing), which was also part of the big chunk of updates, and then the game worked.I reinstalled mangohud (game crashed again).Then in snapper (through YAST) reverted only the files related to mangohud (effectively getting the older version of that app), and everything worked, and besides, this time the rollback worked fine without restarting the system.So, my summary:what went well:the snapshots are helpful, I felt calmer during the whole process than I had been when having similar incidents in the past. And as a developer, seeing the diff on every modified file is cool.journalctl is niceYAST GUIs make things easyWhat didn't go well:the rollback of the snapshot crashed when trying to revert everything, or at least it restarted the PC and the result was not even constant.I spent 1 hour and a half just getting the system in the same stable status it was beforeEdit: thanks everybody for the feedback, it seems there is a better way of performing the rollback that is nicely documented herehttps://doc.opensuse.org/documentation/leap/reference/html/book-reference/cha-snapper.htmlWhen undoing changes, it is also possible to compare a snapshot against the current system. When restoring all files from such a comparison, this will have the same result as doing a rollback. However, using the method described in Section 3.3, “System rollback by booting from snapshots” for rollbacks should be preferred, since it is faster and allows you to review the system before doing the rollback.
Cannot type in Google Sheet without pressing enter while in Plasma Wayland session Cannot type in Google Sheet without pressing enter while in Plasma Wayland sessionu/efade•2 mo. agoCannot type in Google Sheet without pressing enter while in Plasma Wayland sessionTech supportCannot type in Google Sheet without pressing enter while in Waylandr/kde•2 mo. agoCannot type in Google Sheet without pressing enter while in WaylandThe problem doesn't occur while using X11 though. My distro is openSUSE Tumbleweed. I don't know whether it's spesific to openSUSE or KDE or Wayland. Anyone has the problem?2upvotes·11comments
CPU0000	Internal error has occurred check for additional logs R740XD - What the hell? CPU0000	Internal error has occurred check for additional logs R740XD - What the hell?u/Artistic-Injury-9386•2 mo. agoCPU0000	Internal error has occurred check for additional logs R740XD - What the hell?
Tumbleweed Strange Issue on booting Tumbleweed Strange Issue on bootingu/ChanceProblem9948•2 mo. agoTumbleweed Strange Issue on bootingHi, I've two laptops one asus with intell and nvida processor and all it's okone Huawey with Ryzen 5On Huawey, the problem is that after a while, the system becomes unstable and freezes completely. The only option is to shut down, but it won't restart.If I boot with clonezilla, it can't restore anything. The only option is to boot with Gparted Live and format the diskThe problem is that after a while, the system becomes unstable and freezes completely. The only option is to shut down, but it won't restart.If I boot with clonezilla, it can't restore anything. The only option is to boot with Gparted Live and format the disk.What my be the solution?Thank you since now
Agentic Capabilities in OpenSUSE? Agentic Capabilities in OpenSUSE?u/CosmicEmotion•2 mo. agoAgentic Capabilities in OpenSUSE?Hello! I found this article aboutSLES 16going agentic and I was wondering. Are there any plans in implementing this in OpenSUSE cause I'm seriously interested! :)
Agama İnstaller Leap Agama İnstaller Leapu/Comfortable-Ad-9845•2 mo. agoAgama İnstaller LeapHow to… !
System not using proper driver for AX88179 chipset System not using proper driver for AX88179 chipsetu/anonymous_8181•2 mo. agoSystem not using proper driver for AX88179 chipsetDistro: TumbleweedWhen I plug in my tplink usb 3.0hub with ethernet adapter my system uses the cdc_ncm driver which doesn't give the full speed.lsusb -tv: Bus 003.Port 001: Dev 001, Class=root_hub, Driver=xhci_hcd/12p, 480MID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub|__ Port 001: Dev 002, If 0, Class=Hub, Driver=hub/4p, 480MID 05e3:0610 Genesys Logic, Inc. Hub|__ Port 001: Dev 004, If 0, Class=Human Interface Device, Driver=usbhid, 1.5MID 1c4f:0002 SiGma Micro Keyboard TRACER Gamma Ivory|__ Port 001: Dev 004, If 1, Class=Human Interface Device, Driver=usbhid, 1.5MID 1c4f:0002 SiGma Micro Keyboard TRACER Gamma Ivory|__ Port 004: Dev 006, If 0, Class=Communications, Driver=cdc_ncm, 480MID 0b95:1790 ASIX Electronics Corp. AX88179 Gigabit Ethernet|__ Port 004: Dev 006, If 1, Class=CDC Data, Driver=cdc_ncm, 480MID 0b95:1790 ASIX Electronics Corp. AX88179 Gigabit EthernetI tried adding the ax88179_178a driver using modprobe but the driver remained the same. Any help appreciated
KDE : Where has org.kde.plasma.kickoff gone ? KDE : Where has org.kde.plasma.kickoff gone ?u/realkikinovak•2 mo. agoKDE : Where has org.kde.plasma.kickoff gone ?Hi,Our local school is 100% Linux. Currently all the desktop clients are running Rocky Linux 9 with KDE from the third-party EPEL repository. I'm considering deploying OpenSUSE Tumbleweed for a host of reasons, notably support for legacyandrecent hardware.Usually I'm tweaking KDE's default configuration for better usability, either with Ansible or with a series of bone-headed shell scripts.Here's the setup I'm using to modify the list of default launchers showing in the taskbar. This works perfectly under OpenSUSE:PLASMA="/usr/share/plasma/plasmoids" TASKBAR="$PLASMA/org.kde.plasma.taskmanager/contents/config/main.xml"  echo "=== Configure KDE desktop environment ===" echo  echo "Configuring taskbar." sed -i -e 's/applications:systemsettings.desktop/applications:org.kde.dolphin.desktop/g' $TASKBAR sed -i -e 's/applications:org.kde.discover.desktop/applications:firefox.desktop/g' $TASKBAR sed -i -e 's/preferred:\/\/filemanager/applications:thunderbird-esr.desktop/g' $TASKBAR sed -i -e 's/preferred:\/\/browser/applications:libreoffice-startcenter.desktop/g' $TASKBARAnd here's what I use on KDE 5.x under Rocky Linux to modify the default Kickoff menu:KICKOFF="$PLASMA/org.kde.plasma.kickoff/contents/config/main.xml"  echo "  Configuring Kickoff menu." sed -i -e 's/preferred:\/\/browser/firefox.desktop/g' $KICKOFF sed -i -e 's/org.kde.kontact.desktop/thunderbird.desktop/g' $KICKOFF sed -i -e 's/writer.desktop,libreoffice-writer.desktop/libreoffice-startcenter.desktop/g' $KICKOFF sed -i -e 's/org.kde.digikam.desktop,//g' $KICKOFF sed -i -e 's/org.kde.kate.desktop,//g' $KICKOFF sed -i -e 's/systemsettings.desktop,//g' $KICKOFF sed -i -e 's/org.kde.Help.desktop,//g' $KICKOFF sed -i -e 's/org.kde.khelpcenter.desktop,//g' $KICKOFF sed -i -e 's/org.kde.konsole.desktop//g' $KICKOFF sed -i -e 's/org.kde.dolphin.desktop,/org.kde.dolphin.desktop/g' $KICKOFF sed -i -e 's/suspend,hibernate/logout/g' $KICKOFFThe problem is, theorg.kde.plasma.kickoffdirectory in/usr/share/plasma/plasmoidsis gone. It's nowhere to be found, and I can't seem to identify its replacements.On a side note, I love KDE, been using it since version 2.4. But their developers have a knack for moving targets.Any suggestions ?
Install Firefox non-ESR on Leap 16 Install Firefox non-ESR on Leap 16[deleted]•2 mo. agoInstall Firefox non-ESR on Leap 16Hello. What is the best way to install the latest version of Firefox on Leap 16? Can Firefox and Firefox-esr be installed at the same time? Thanks
Firefox vs. Firefox ESR Firefox vs. Firefox ESRu/realkikinovak•2 mo. agoFirefox vs. Firefox ESRHi,I've been a die-hard Firefox user since the first release back in 2004. My workhorse computers (workstation and laptops) are mostly running successive RHEL clones, each coming with a default Firefox ESR.I'm currently fiddling with Tumbleweed, and I see it defaults to the standard Firefox, though there's afirefox-esrpackage available in the repos.Now I wonder if I should stick with the defaultMozillaFirefoxor move thefirefox-esr.Any suggestions ?
Warning: nVidia drivers stuck at 6.17.9 - kernel at 6.18.0 - Tumbleweed will blow up if you dup now. Warning: nVidia drivers stuck at 6.17.9 - kernel at 6.18.0 - Tumbleweed will blow up if you dup now.u/MiukuS•2 mo. agoWarning: nVidia drivers stuck at 6.17.9 - kernel at 6.18.0 - Tumbleweed will blow up if you dup now.SolvedDue to nVidia drivers being stuck at 580.105.08_k6.17.9_1-2.4 and new 6.18.0 kernel being released, if you dup your Tumbleweed box now you will break it.So, lock kernel+nvidia and wait for the repo to catch up.If you've already blown up your install, choose earlier kernel (6.17.9-1) from bootloader or rollback.EDIT2:Drivers have been fixed and have both G06 6.18 and G07 6.18 drivers available.| nvidia-open-driver-G06-signed-cuda-kmp-default    | package | 580.105.08_k6.18.0_2-3.1    | x86_64 | repo-oss| nvidia-open-driver-G06-signed-kmp-default         | package | 580.105.08_k6.18.0_2-3.1    | x86_64 | repo-oss| nvidia-open-driver-G07-signed-cuda-kmp-default    | package | 590.44.01_k6.18.0_2-1.1     | x86_64 | repo-oss| nvidia-open-driver-G07-signed-kmp-default         | package | 590.44.01_k6.18.0_2-1.1     | x86_64 | repo-oss
15.6 -> 16.0 storage / partition question at the installation 15.6 -> 16.0 storage / partition question at the installationu/Marmor333•2 mo. ago15.6 -> 16.0 storage / partition question at the installationHelloWith the new installation software I am not very familar until now. At the old (till 15.6) I had no problems with the partitions and made all including the mount.Opensuse installer dedect all partitionsI can select to mount /, /home and /swap but I don't know if he will format them or keep them. (where to select it). And I don't know how to mount the /srv partition from the 15.6 Version without deleting it.I searched already on other forums, found there the question too, but not a good answer and at youtube videos they made only new installations without mount old partitionsAnybody know a page with good description or can help me?
How to live test the distro? How to live test the distro?u/Merthod•2 mo. agoHow to live test the distro?I downloaded Tumbleweed, but the boot manager only has the install and troubleshoot options. Can't I test it?Also, how can I make the test of the GUI installer bigger? I have a 4k monitor and text is barely discernible.I found someone suggests changing the installer resolution to `XVideo=1920x1200` setting, but I don't know where to put that.
Fcitx5 crash on opening some pages in browser Fcitx5 crash on opening some pages in browseru/JeromeCui•2 mo. agoFcitx5 crash on opening some pages in browserI am running latest openSUSE Slowroll in my computer. Recently I found that fcitx5 crash when I tried to open some Confluence pages in edit mode with Edge or Firefox.Is there any way that I could escape this issue?OS details:Operating System: openSUSE Tumbleweed-Slowroll 20251106 KDE Plasma Version: 6.5.3 KDE Frameworks Version: 6.20.0 Qt Version: 6.10.1 Kernel Version: 6.17.9-1-default (64-bit) Graphics Platform: Wayland Processors: 16 × AMD Ryzen 7 7840HS w/ Radeon 780M Graphics Memory: 32 GiB of RAM (30.5 GiB usable) Graphics Processor: llvmpipeHere is the log I found:Dec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 kwin_wayland_wrapper[1659]: Data too big for buffer (1044808 + 4024 > 1048576).Dec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 kwin_wayland_wrapper[1659]: error in client communication (pid 1659)Dec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.266810 waylandmodule.cpp:365] Connection removedDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 kded6[1799]: Service  ":1.1428" unregisteredDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.330010 addonmanager.cpp:306] Unloading addon spellDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.336408 addonmanager.cpp:306] Unloading addon chttransDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.336785 addonmanager.cpp:306] Unloading addon fullwidthDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.337068 addonmanager.cpp:306] Unloading addon cloudpinyinDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.344122 addonmanager.cpp:306] Unloading addon pinyinDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.350236 addonmanager.cpp:306] Unloading addon punctuationDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.351748 addonmanager.cpp:306] Unloading addon notificationsDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.351783 addonmanager.cpp:306] Unloading addon notificationitemDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.352148 addonmanager.cpp:306] Unloading addon classicuiDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.352162 plasmathemewatchdog.cpp:133] Cleanup Plasma Theme generator.Dec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.372609 addonmanager.cpp:306] Unloading addon virtualkeyboardDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.373469 addonmanager.cpp:306] Unloading addon kimpanelDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.373803 addonmanager.cpp:306] Unloading addon ximDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.381274 addonmanager.cpp:306] Unloading addon fcitx4frontendDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.382543 addonmanager.cpp:306] Unloading addon dbusfrontendDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.382899 addonmanager.cpp:306] Unloading addon migration-reminderDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.382981 addonmanager.cpp:306] Unloading addon unicodeDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.383346 addonmanager.cpp:306] Unloading addon imeapiDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.383646 addonmanager.cpp:306] Unloading addon ibusfrontendDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.387800 addonmanager.cpp:306] Unloading addon dbusDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.389289 addonmanager.cpp:306] Unloading addon luaaddonloaderDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.389345 addonmanager.cpp:306] Unloading addon pinyinhelperDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.425567 addonmanager.cpp:306] Unloading addon clipboardDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.426493 addonmanager.cpp:306] Unloading addon keyboardDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.428684 addonmanager.cpp:306] Unloading addon waylandimDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.428727 addonmanager.cpp:306] Unloading addon waylandDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.428756 addonmanager.cpp:306] Unloading addon xcbDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.429287 addonmanager.cpp:306] Unloading addon quickphraseDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 fcitx5[581753]: I2025-12-06 17:23:33.433497 addonmanager.cpp:306] Unloading addon imselectorDec 06 17:23:33 MOATCNLW1075 systemd[1584]: dbus-:1.2-org.fcitx.Fcitx5@2.service: Consumed 28.660s CPU time.
Your take on Tumbleweed vs. Slowroll ? Your take on Tumbleweed vs. Slowroll ?u/realkikinovak•2 mo. agoYour take on Tumbleweed vs. Slowroll ?Hi,I'm currently fiddling with OpenSUSE Tumbleweed. In my day job I'm using various RHEL clones like AlmaLinux and Rocky Linux. I'm now looking for something more bleeding edge to support more recent hardware, while offeringsomestability.I've had some experience on OpenSUSE Leap in the past, so I'm reasonably proficient with Zypper, the way official and third-party repositories interact and more generally the way SUSE does things in a certain way.My objective is to use it mainly on the desktop, the more so since I've always been a fan of KDE (since version 2.4 on Slackware 7.1) and SUSE's implementation of this desktop has always been very nice.I wonder if I should choose Tumbleweed or Slowroll. In my day job I really love "boring" RHEL clones, so I'd be inclined to give Slowroll a spin. Before doing that, I thought I'd ask the seasoned OpenSUSE users here about their respective experiences with Tumbleweed and/or Slowroll. What are the pros and cons, the recommendations and the caveats ?Cheers from the sunny South of France,Niki
New User on Lunar Lake New User on Lunar Lakeu/BramdeusBrozart•2 mo. agoNew User on Lunar LakeTech questionI just got a brand new laptop with a Core Ultra 9 288V, only to discover it has some compatibility issues with Linux. I was daily driving Garuda Dragonized on my previous laptop, I run Bazzite on my desktop, and I have the steamOS Legion Go S. I'm familiar with Linux, but mostly Arch and Fedora based distros. What are some idiosyncrasies of OpenSUSE I should know about and what are tips and tricks for optimizing performance (and does it do well with gaming)? I went with OpenSUSE Tumbleweed because it seemed to have the most recommendations for hardware support on Lunar Lake.
Warum immer Probleme mit opensuse? Warum immer Probleme mit opensuse?u/sandfoxifox•2 mo. agoWarum immer Probleme mit opensuse?Hello. Since S.u.S.E. 5.1 I am a recognised Linux user. However, as often as I test opensuse, I always have problems with the distro. Whether TW or Leaf. Recently I had to reinstall the DM manually after an installation of Leaf (even twice), because the system started in the console (without working DM). Or the DM showed a black screen after login. Only the creation of a new user helped. Sound drivers were wrong (also here only helped via Yast to select others. Printer was not recognised, important apps do not work, changing rpms never worked, etc. .... These things happen every time.With other distros, on the other hand, I never have such problems. Leaf is super stable and fast. But not useable for me. Unfortunately. opensuse would be my favourite if these circumstances were not for me. (I use an Intel computer with „standard“ hardware)I’m not a newbie and well versed in working with the console. Nevertheless, I have no desire to constantly overcome such „orchainds“, while others run much more out of the box. (Fedora, Debian).What could be the reason for this? Karma? Fate?
Dual GPUs Dual GPUsu/Tommycicca06•2 mo. agoDual GPUsHow to… !Hi, I'm completely new to the linux world and I installed opensuse slowroll into my hp spectre x360 (the one with an intel gpu as main gpu plus nvidia 4050 as secondary gpu for games), when I used windows it automatically detected when it should use nvidia instead of intel, but here on opensuse it uses ONLY the intel one. I dont even know if I have installed the correct drivers for nvidia or even if I installed them at all as I repeat I'm completely new to this world in which I came to escape big companies like microsoft and join the opensource community. Can someone please help me on installing the correct things and configure them so that it uses the nvidia when I play games? (It doesnt necesarly has to be automatic, it is ok also if I have to manually say to use the nvidia gpu through a command in the terminal).Sorry for my really bad and messy english I hope you understand
Leap 16 install question Leap 16 install questionu/S1e0rdk•2 mo. agoLeap 16 install questionHi, I have installed openSUSE Leap 16 on my ThinkPad laptop. There is no dual-boot, and I’m using full-disk encryption with the default partitioning layout (Btrfs) as suggested by the installer — I didn’t change anything.I don’t know why, but before the GRUB menu appears, it asks for a password for hd0. No matter what I type, nothing happens. Pressing ESC also does nothing. After a minute or two it continues to GRUB, and then it asks for the disk-encryption password as usual. I enter it and the system boots normally.What is happening? Please help.
Well, this is going well.. Well, this is going well..u/ThrashCardiom•2 mo. agoWell, this is going well..And it's not my internet connection:Preloading Packages: [ (88.3 MiB / 1.82 GiB)(16.0 KiB/s)] <4%
Tux Assistant is a Linux app I have been developing and testing with OpenSUSE Tux Assistant is a Linux app I have been developing and testing with OpenSUSEu/whyexist12345•2 mo. agoTux Assistant is a Linux app I have been developing and testing with OpenSUSENew App
Can't open dev container in remote tumbleweed dev machine Can't open dev container in remote tumbleweed dev machineu/bursa_boy69•2 mo. agoCan't open dev container in remote tumbleweed dev machineI have a remote tumbleweed machine set up at my office then I want to access containers in it using vs code dev containers but it seems to not work.I keep getting this unknown error here:I dont know where to find the logs usingdev containes: show all logsdoes nothing. anyone fixed this before?
openSUSE Leap 16 openSUSE Leap 16u/Wide_Barracuda_9397•2 mo. agoopenSUSE Leap 16HelloI was wondering what are your guys experience with the new Leap release, are you satisfied with it etc. , YaST being deprecated and all... I didn't find much information on YouTube or internet as a whole about the Leap 16. So I thought I'd ask the Reddit. Thanks in advance.
Kalpa is a very nice project.  I wish I could use it... Kalpa is a very nice project.  I wish I could use it...u/TxTechnician•2 mo. agoKalpa is a very nice project.  I wish I could use it...KalpaI tried it today.  And was impressed.  It was so fluid and easy to use.  But as it is still experimental.... I cannot afford to use it in anything I do.https://kalpadesktop.org/Give it a shot.  It's part of the install options for MicroOShttps://get.opensuse.org/microos/BUT!  There's a weird bug in caused by the YaST installer.  First time login doesn't give the GUI for the KDE desktop...Login with your user.  Then enable the sddm service and then the GUI will appear permanently upon restarts.sudo systemctl enable --now --force sddm.service
Can't launch cyberpunk 2077 on Tumbleweed Can't launch cyberpunk 2077 on Tumbleweedu/serjor•2 mo. agoCan't launch cyberpunk 2077 on TumbleweedCan't launch cyberpunk 2077 on Tumbleweedr/linux_gaming•2 mo. agoCan't launch cyberpunk 2077 on TumbleweedHi,I can't launch Cyberpunk 2077, and I can't understand why. If I uninstall and install the game, it works, but if I reboot the computer, it won't, so I have to uninstall and install again, which isn't an option.The error messages I can see in the console are something like:Adding process 7020 for gameID 1091500 Adding process 7032 for gameID 1091500 ATTENTION: default value of option vk_x11_override_min_image_count overridden by environment. ATTENTION: default value of option vk_x11_override_min_image_count overridden by environment. ATTENTION: default value of option vk_x11_override_min_image_count overridden by environment. ATTENTION: default value of option vk_x11_override_min_image_count overridden by environment. ATTENTION: default value of option vk_x11_override_min_image_count overridden by environment. pid 6936 != 6935, skipping destruction (fork without exec?) Game Recording - game stopped [gameid=1091500]But I don't know what is going on here. Any clue?Thanks!!1upvote·5comments
KDE does not start from sddm KDE does not start from sddmu/HappyRuesseltier•2 mo. agoKDE does not start from sddmWhen I try to start KDE or Gnome from sddm the session does not start. It does not matter if I use Wayland or X11.What works is 'startplasma-wayland' from bask. Also I am able to start from lightdm.Any ideas where to look for the sddm problem? I am on OpenSuse Tumbleweed Slowroll.Output in the journal:joe@Black:~$ journalctl -b -p errHint: You are currently not seeing messages from other users and the system.Users in the 'systemd-journal' group can see all messages. Pass -q toturn off this notice.Dez 04 20:12:39 Black.none dbus-broker-launch[17464]:Ignoring duplicate name 'org.freedesktop.FileManager1' in service file '/usr/share//dbus-1/services/org.kde.dolphin.FileManager1.service'Dez 04 20:12:41 Black.none kcminit_startup[17484]:This application failed to start because no Qt platform plugin could be initialized. Reinstalling the application may fix this problem.Available platform plugins are: minimalegl, linuxfb, offscreen, vnc, wayland-brcm, wayland-egl, wayland, xcb, vkkhrdisplay, eglfs, minimal.Dez 04 20:12:41 Black.none ksplashqml[17482]:This application failed to start because no Qt platform plugin could be initialized. Reinstalling the application may fix this problem.Available platform plugins are: minimalegl, linuxfb, offscreen, vnc, wayland-brcm, wayland-egl, wayland, xcb, vkkhrdisplay, eglfs, minimal.Dez 04 20:12:41 Black.none systemd-coredump[17578]: [🡕]Process 17484 (kcminit_startup) of user 1000 dumped core.Stack trace of thread 17484:#0  0x00007f338649dd3c __pthread_kill_implementation (libc.so.6 + 0x9dd3c)#1  0x00007f33864427b6 raise (libc.so.6 + 0x427b6)#2  0x00007f338642934b abort (libc.so.6 + 0x2934b)#3  0x00007f3386cf668b n/a (libQt6Core.so.6 + 0xf668b)#4  0x00007f3386cf722f _ZNK14QMessageLogger5fatalEPKcz (libQt6Core.so.6 + 0xf722f)#5  0x00007f338757f146 n/a (libQt6Gui.so.6 + 0x17f146)#6  0x00007f338762d1b8 _ZN22QGuiApplicationPrivate21createEventDispatcherEv (libQt6Gui.so.6 + 0x22d1b8)#7  0x00007f3386dd4f9d _ZN23QCoreApplicationPrivate4initEv (libQt6Core.so.6 + 0x1d4f9d)#8  0x00007f338762d25e _ZN22QGuiApplicationPrivate4initEv (libQt6Gui.so.6 + 0x22d25e)#9  0x00007f3387629a26 _ZN15QGuiApplicationC1ERiPPci (libQt6Gui.so.6 + 0x229a26)#10 0x000055c35cfa77b7 n/a (/usr/bin/kcminit + 0x37b7)#11 0x00007f338642b2fb __libc_start_call_main (libc.so.6 + 0x2b2fb)#12 0x00007f338642b3cb __libc_start_main@@GLIBC_2.34 (libc.so.6 + 0x2b3cb)#13 0x000055c35cfa8c05 n/a (/usr/bin/kcminit + 0x4c05)Stack trace of thread 17485:#0  0x00007f33864a4812 __syscall_cancel_arch (libc.so.6 + 0xa4812)#1  0x00007f3386498008 __internal_syscall_cancel (libc.so.6 + 0x98008)#2  0x00007f3386498061 __syscall_cancel (libc.so.6 + 0x98061)#3  0x00007f3386512f32 ppoll (libc.so.6 + 0x112f32)#4  0x00007f3386309b1f n/a (libglib-2.0.so.0 + 0x62b1f)#5  0x00007f338630a26c g_main_context_iteration (libglib-2.0.so.0 + 0x6326c)#6  0x00007f338708ca28 _ZN20QEventDispatcherGlib13processEventsE6QFlagsIN10QEventLoop17ProcessEventsFlagEE (libQt6Core.so.6 + 0x48ca28)#7  0x00007f3386ddc1ab _ZN10QEventLoop4execE6QFlagsINS_17ProcessEventsFlagEE (libQt6Core.so.6 + 0x1dc1ab)#8  0x00007f3386ee1679 _ZN7QThread4execEv (libQt6Core.so.6 + 0x2e1679)#9  0x00007f3387376abe n/a (libQt6DBus.so.6 + 0x44abe)#10 0x00007f3386f71e68 n/a (libQt6Core.so.6 + 0x371e68)#11 0x00007f338649bdf1 start_thread (libc.so.6 + 0x9bdf1)#12 0x00007f3386520c8c __clone3 (libc.so.6 + 0x120c8c)ELF object binary architecture: AMD x86-64Dez 04 20:12:41 Black.none systemd-coredump[17577]: [🡕]Process 17482 (ksplashqml) of user 1000 dumped core.Stack trace of thread 17482:#0  0x00007f136309dd3c __pthread_kill_implementation (libc.so.6 + 0x9dd3c)#1  0x00007f13630427b6 raise (libc.so.6 + 0x427b6)#2  0x00007f136302934b abort (libc.so.6 + 0x2934b)#3  0x00007f13638f668b n/a (libQt6Core.so.6 + 0xf668b)#4  0x00007f13638f722f _ZNK14QMessageLogger5fatalEPKcz (libQt6Core.so.6 + 0xf722f)#5  0x00007f136417f146 n/a (libQt6Gui.so.6 + 0x17f146)#6  0x00007f136422d1b8 _ZN22QGuiApplicationPrivate21createEventDispatcherEv (libQt6Gui.so.6 + 0x22d1b8)#7  0x00007f13639d4f9d _ZN23QCoreApplicationPrivate4initEv (libQt6Core.so.6 + 0x1d4f9d)#8  0x00007f136422d25e _ZN22QGuiApplicationPrivate4initEv (libQt6Gui.so.6 + 0x22d25e)#9  0x00007f1364229a26 _ZN15QGuiApplicationC1ERiPPci (libQt6Gui.so.6 + 0x229a26)#10 0x000055f55410bf5f n/a (/usr/bin/ksplashqml + 0x5f5f)#11 0x00007f136302b2fb __libc_start_call_main (libc.so.6 + 0x2b2fb)#12 0x00007f136302b3cb __libc_start_main@@GLIBC_2.34 (libc.so.6 + 0x2b3cb)#13 0x000055f55410cc75 n/a (/usr/bin/ksplashqml + 0x6c75)Stack trace of thread 17492:#0  0x00007f13630a4812 __syscall_cancel_arch (libc.so.6 + 0xa4812)#1  0x00007f1363098008 __internal_syscall_cancel (libc.so.6 + 0x98008)#2  0x00007f1363098061 __syscall_cancel (libc.so.6 + 0x98061)#3  0x00007f1363112f32 ppoll (libc.so.6 + 0x112f32)#4  0x00007f1361909b1f n/a (libglib-2.0.so.0 + 0x62b1f)#5  0x00007f136190a26c g_main_context_iteration (libglib-2.0.so.0 + 0x6326c)#6  0x00007f1363c8ca28 _ZN20QEventDispatcherGlib13processEventsE6QFlagsIN10QEventLoop17ProcessEventsFlagEE (libQt6Core.so.6 + 0x48ca28)#7  0x00007f13639dc1ab _ZN10QEventLoop4execE6QFlagsINS_17ProcessEventsFlagEE (libQt6Core.so.6 + 0x1dc1ab)#8  0x00007f1363ae1679 _ZN7QThread4execEv (libQt6Core.so.6 + 0x2e1679)#9  0x00007f1363f76abe n/a (libQt6DBus.so.6 + 0x44abe)#10 0x00007f1363b71e68 n/a (libQt6Core.so.6 + 0x371e68)#11 0x00007f136309bdf1 start_thread (libc.so.6 + 0x9bdf1)#12 0x00007f1363120c8c __clone3 (libc.so.6 + 0x120c8c)ELF object binary architecture: AMD x86-64
Use OpenSUSE Tumbleweed without YaST ? Use OpenSUSE Tumbleweed without YaST ?u/realkikinovak•2 mo. agoUse OpenSUSE Tumbleweed without YaST ?Hi,I'm currently in the honeymoon stage with OpenSUSE Tumbleweed. In my day job I'm running various RHEL clones on all my servers and desktops, so I'm reasonably familiar with stuff. Now I'm experimenting with Tumbleweed in order to put it on my more recent hardware.I'm starting from a vanilla KDE desktop installation. I'm currently writing an Ansible playbook to handle the post-installation configuration stuff. Here's what I got so far (it's a work in progress):https://gitlab.com/kikinovak/opensuse/-/blob/main/install.yml?ref_type=headsThe default installation has quite many YaST modules installed. I won't list them all here, but just to give an idea:$ rpm -qa | grep ^yast2 | head yast2-alternatives-5.0.0-1.6.x86_64 yast2-trans-fr-84.87.20251120.56464525cf-1.1.noarch yast2-trans-stats-2.19.0-17.30.noarch yast2-core-5.0.3-1.5.x86_64 yast2-ycp-ui-bindings-5.0.1-1.3.x86_64 yast2-xml-5.0.1-1.1.x86_64 yast2-perl-bindings-5.0.4-1.7.x86_64 yast2-logs-5.0.17-1.1.x86_64 yast2-ruby-bindings-5.0.5-1.1.x86_64 yast2-hardware-detection-5.0.0-1.7.x86_64 $ rpm -qa | grep ^yast2 | wc -l 49Can I safely wipe all these packages? Usually I either configure my systems by hand or using Ansible. I'm more comfortable editing/etc/default/grubby hand than running the corresponding YaST module.Any suggestions ?Cheers,Niki
SLES - Free Developer Subscription (Similar to RHEL?) SLES - Free Developer Subscription (Similar to RHEL?)u/Shard-of-night•2 mo. agoSLES - Free Developer Subscription (Similar to RHEL?)Hi there, maybe someone also ran into this issue. Supposedly, there is a Free Developer Subscription for SLES, just like the one Red Hat offers. Yet, it is impossible to find. So, is this only a rumor or is there any 'hidden link' that somebody cares to share?
The future of X11 on Tumbleweed The future of X11 on Tumbleweedu/realkikinovak•2 mo. agoThe future of X11 on TumbleweedHi,KDE announced recently that starting with 6.8 they will ditch X11 and support Wayland only. What does this mean for Tumbleweed ? Will a KDE desktop installation with Tumbleweed soon default to Wayland ?I have an old Dell Optiplex PC with an equally old NVidia GeForce 710 card that works perfectly with X11 and the proprietary NVidia 470 driver.Will I have to migrate my setup to a Wayland +nouveaucombination in the near future ?Cheers,Niki
how do i get back the cute gecko logo? (kde) how do i get back the cute gecko logo? (kde)u/Patata11A•2 mo. agohow do i get back the cute gecko logo? (kde)i changed my icons and now it displays the basic kde logo... but i miss the white gecko onei tried to change it on settings, but it doesnt appear, just a green oneplz help
MicroOS: non BTRFS /var partition MicroOS: non BTRFS /var partitionu/NoRequirement5796•2 mo. agoMicroOS: non BTRFS /var partitionTech questionHello,My question is pretty much in the title.I plan to run kubernetes and some build jobs, which are tested only on ext4 filesystems. I tested in a VM and tried changing the var partition to ext4 but the installer said that it was not supported/recommended (don't remember well).Is it okay to use another FS or itmustbe BTRFS for the /var partition?
My openSUSE Leap 16.0 My openSUSE Leap 16.0u/Doudy34•2 mo. agoMy openSUSE Leap 16.0
How to determine which Wifi device I am using - Tumbleweed How to determine which Wifi device I am using - Tumbleweedu/SleepyGuyy•2 mo. agoHow to determine which Wifi device I am using - TumbleweedSolvedI admit I'm quite novice when it comes to linux terminal applications. While I use the terminal plenty, I generally use GUIs to configure my desktop, network, etc..I recently got a USB wifi adapter for my laptop, because my wifi was unreliable where my desk is. I got one with two large antennae that will likely catch a signal better (and allows me to reposition the location up higher and behind my monitor that might be blocking a bit).Before I had some inconsistency in Zoom.I've plugged in the adapter and rebooted, but I don't have an easy way to test if my signal is better.How can I confirm my system is using it, instead of my built-in wifi?I ran usb-devices and noticed this:T: Bus=01 Lev=01 Prnt=01 Port=01 Cnt=01 Dev#= 2 Spd=480 MxCh= 0D: Ver= 2.00 Cls=00(>ifc ) Sub=00 Prot=00 MxPS=64 #Cfgs= 1P: Vendor=0bda ProdID=b832 Rev=00.00S: Manufacturer=RealtekS: Product=802.11ac WLAN AdapterS: SerialNumber=00e04c000001C: #Ifs= 1 Cfg#= 1 Atr=e0 MxPwr=500mAI: If#= 0 Alt= 0 #EPs= 8 Cls=ff(vend.) Sub=ff Prot=ff Driver=rtw89_8852buE: Ad=05(O) Atr=02(Bulk) MxPS= 512 Ivl=0msE: Ad=06(O) Atr=02(Bulk) MxPS= 512 Ivl=0msE: Ad=07(O) Atr=02(Bulk) MxPS= 512 Ivl=0msE: Ad=09(O) Atr=02(Bulk) MxPS= 512 Ivl=0msE: Ad=0a(O) Atr=02(Bulk) MxPS= 512 Ivl=0msE: Ad=0b(O) Atr=02(Bulk) MxPS= 512 Ivl=0msE: Ad=0c(O) Atr=02(Bulk) MxPS= 512 Ivl=0msE: Ad=84(I) Atr=02(Bulk) MxPS= 512 Ivl=0msAnd I ran ip a  an got this:ip a1: lo: <LOOPBACK,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 65536 qdisc noqueue state UNKNOWN group default qlen 1000link/loopback 00:00:00:00:00:00 brd 00:00:00:00:00:00inet127.0.0.1/8scope host lovalid_lft forever preferred_lft foreverinet6 ::1/128 scope host noprefixroutevalid_lft forever preferred_lft forever2: wlp1s0: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc noqueue state UP group default qlen 1000link/ether **:**:**:**:**:** brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ffaltname wlx700894b154b3inet 10.0.0.***/** brd10.0.0.255scope global dynamic noprefixroute wlp1s0valid_lft 172427sec preferred_lft 172427secinet6 ****:****:****:***::****/*** scope global dynamic noprefixroutevalid_lft 575534sec preferred_lft 154158secinet6 ****:****:****:***:****:****:****:****/** scope global temporary dynamicvalid_lft 575907sec preferred_lft 85759secinet6 ****:****:****:***:****:****:****:****/** scope global dynamic mngtmpaddr noprefixroutevalid_lft 575907sec preferred_lft 154531secinet6 ****::****:****:****:****/** scope link noprefixroutevalid_lft forever preferred_lft forever3: wlp0s20f0u2: <NO-CARRIER,BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP> mtu 1500 qdisc noqueue state DOWN group default qlen 1000link/ether **:**:**:**:**:** brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff permaddr **:**:**:**:**:**altname wlx7419f81ca368I obfuscated some values incase my IP was exposed. Not entirely sure which values are sensitive.I imagine 2 and 3 are the wifi sources, but I dont know which is which, and I don't know how to tell the system to use one of those over the other.It would be nice if it defaulted to the built-in wifi when the usb device was not plugged in, too.But a manual switch command would also work.*edit* Update:Sorry I now see the device selection in the Advanced Network Configurations application. But the issue still stands I don't know which device is which lol.those numbers/letters after the device name seem to match the link/ether of the #2 ip a device, and the "permaddr" of the #3 ip a device. However I don't really know how to identify them lol.
Manage Tumbleweed repositories with Ansible Manage Tumbleweed repositories with Ansibleu/realkikinovak•2 mo. agoManage Tumbleweed repositories with AnsibleHi,Since this is my first post in this group, let me briefly introduce myself. I'm a 58 year old Austrian living in South France. I'm a long-time Linux user (started out on Slackware 7.1 two and a half decades ago). I've used quite many distributions but I'm fairly new to Tumbleweed (after a false start a while back).I'm currently fiddling with Tumbleweed and I must say I'm pleasantly surprised. I have a "vanilla" Tumbleweed/KDE installation in a VM and on a spare sandbox PC. Right now I'm writing an Ansible playbook to handle post-install configuration and fine-tuning, applying various hints and tweaks I can find either in the documentation or in various tutorials.I have a problem with the repositories. For a start, I'd like to use the official (e. g. OSS, Non-OSS & Update) repositories as well as Packman Essentials and NVidia. So here's what I have:- name: Configure OSS repository       community.general.zypper_repository:         name: oss         repo: https://download.opensuse.org/tumbleweed/repo/oss/         state: present         auto_import_keys: true         enabled: true         priority: 99      - name: Configure Non-OSS repository       community.general.zypper_repository:         name: non-oss         repo: https://download.opensuse.org/tumbleweed/repo/non-oss/         state: present         auto_import_keys: true         enabled: true         priority: 99      - name: Configure Updates repository       community.general.zypper_repository:         name: update         repo: https://download.opensuse.org/update/tumbleweed/         state: present         auto_import_keys: true         enabled: true         priority: 99      - name: Configure Packman Essentials repository       community.general.zypper_repository:         name: packman-essentials         repo: "https://ftp.gwdg.de/pub/linux/misc/packman/suse/\                openSUSE_Tumbleweed/Essentials"         state: present         auto_import_keys: true         enabled: true         priority: 90      - name: Configure NVidia repository       community.general.zypper_repository:         name: nvidia         repo: https://download.nvidia.com/opensuse/tumbleweed         state: present         auto_import_keys: true         enabled: true         priority: 80I also have a couple tasks that get rid of all unwanted*.repofiles in/etc/zypp/repos.d:- name: Remove unneeded repositories       ansible.builtin.file:         path: "/etc/zypp/repos.d/{{item}}.repo"         state: absent       loop:         - "download.opensuse.org-oss"         - "download.opensuse.org-non-oss"         - "download.opensuse.org-tumbleweed"         - "repo-debug"         - "repo-openh264"         - "repo-source"         - "NVIDIA:repo-non-free"         - "openSUSE:repo-non-oss"         - "openSUSE:repo-openh264"         - "openSUSE:repo-oss-debug"         - "openSUSE:repo-oss"         - "openSUSE:repo-oss-source"         - "openSUSE:update-tumbleweed"      - name: Find installation media repository       ansible.builtin.find:         paths: /etc/zypp/repos.d/         patterns: "openSUSE-*.repo"       register: media_repo      - name: Remove installation media repository       ansible.builtin.file:         path: "{{ media_repo.files[0].path }}"         state: absent       when: media_repo.matched > 0The problem is that these files keep reappearing mysteriously. So my first question here would be: how can I keep these files from reappearing?Cheers from the sunny South of France,Niki
Help: how to prevent client PC from freezing when NFS server is rebooting / shut down? Help: how to prevent client PC from freezing when NFS server is rebooting / shut down?u/aeroumbria•2 mo. agoHelp: how to prevent client PC from freezing when NFS server is rebooting / shut down?Tech supportI have two tumbleweed systems in my home network, where one is my main PC and the other one as an all-in-one server with DNS, media serving and local AI models. I often have to tweak the hardware setup for the server PC, which involves a lot of rebooting or powering down, and normally it wouldn't be a problem, as I don't need the services to be up 100% of the time. However, it noticed that if I mount NFS drives from the server in the client PC, every time the server PC is down, almost anything to do with desktop or Dolphin will freeze the client PC, and the only thing I can do is launching apps from terminal. This never happened back when I used SMB, but I had some trouble with auto mounting cifs drives, so I decided to switch to NFS. I used the Yast NFS client and server settings to set up the shared drives.Is there a solution to this issue? Whole desktop freezing seems too extreme for losing connection to a remote PC. Ideally I would like to avoid falling back to SMB, as I would have to set up the drives exactly the same way to avoid application errors.
KDE Plasma - Desktop icons move on every boot KDE Plasma - Desktop icons move on every bootu/acejavelin69•2 mo. agoKDE Plasma - Desktop icons move on every bootNot sure when this started... In the last week or so, but every time I boot up and log into the desktop, all my desktop icons (not many, like six) are all moved from my primary monitor to my second one and underneath some widgets I have.I move them back where I want them, set the options accordingly and lock them, then reboot and they moved again back again.Any idea how to prevent this from happening? It's not horrible, but it is really annoying.System details below.Operating System: openSUSE Tumbleweed 20251126 KDE Plasma Version: 6.5.3 KDE Frameworks Version: 6.20.0 Qt Version: 6.10.1 Kernel Version: 6.17.9-1-default (64-bit) Graphics Platform: Wayland Processors: 24 × AMD Ryzen 9 5900X 12-Core Processor Memory: 32 GiB of RAM (31.3 GiB usable) Graphics Processor: AMD Radeon RX 6900 XT Manufacturer: Micro-Star International Co., Ltd. Product Name: MS-7C37 System Version: 1.0EDIT: Known issue and fix:KDE Plasma known issue:Bug 494412This is a common bug in KDE, often appearing after a reboot or sleep. To fix it, you can try toggling the desktop view between "Desktop" and "Folder View" for both monitors, as this sometimes resets the icons to the correct positions. If that doesn't work, a more permanent fix may require editing the ~/.config/plasma-org.kde.plasma.desktop-appletsrc file or waiting for a future KDE patch.Or a more "permanent" fix is:Edit the Plasma configuration file:Open a terminal and runkate ~/.config/plasma-org.kde.plasma.desktop-appletsrcor use your preferred text editor.Find the[ScreenMapping]section.Delete the entire line for theScreenMappingkey, but leave the[ScreenMapping]section header intact.Save the file and restart Plasma.
What is the best OpenSUSE version to use for my use case? What is the best OpenSUSE version to use for my use case?u/xWizardux•2 mo. agoWhat is the best OpenSUSE version to use for my use case?How to… ?I am a long time Ubuntu/Debian user for Self Hosting. I recently learned aboutbtrfsandsnapperwhich led me to look deeper into OpenSUSE. I am looking for a setup that is running the bare minimum server OS.Requirements:Should be able to runsambaon baremetalShould be able to installincusorlxdBridge network for VMsShould be able to rundockerorpodmanMicroOS:I liked the simplicity of the OS but the immutable part eventually got me. Since it comes withcockpit, I was able to configure a bridge network in no time. I ran into issues withincusandlxdbutdistroboxmight work here. Forsamba, there are a few posts that talk about setting it up withpodman. To be fair, I am not very familiar withpodmanand when it started talking aboutquadletsinstead ofcompose, I gave up on it.The documentation on it also seems scarce. A lot of the documents mention either Tumbleweed or Leap.Leap:Leap's installer was great and it gave me better control of static IP during installation and hostname (I know these are not a pain to change after installation but having these options shows the flexibility of the installer). I was also able to installcockpiton it to configure the bridge network. It worked straight away. I am a little hesitant because it does not have a nativeincuspackage. Though it does havelxdsupport, I don't want to be limited by it since on my current Ubuntu installlxdhas been giving me issues with slow image download.Tumbleweed:Very little configuration options in the installer. I couldn't configure static IP address or even the hostname. After the install, my biggest issue is to add a bridge network. I tried cockpit, which broke the configuration. I tried some forum posts and documentation which refer to YaST for changes. The latest Tumbleweed is using NetworkManager. Finally, I used AI to configure it which seem to have worked but it ends up keeping both the default and bridge interface up. I am not sure if it this is correct.So, any suggestions on what would be good for my use case?
Facing unusual lags in specific steam games on tumbleweed Facing unusual lags in specific steam games on tumbleweedu/solomazer•2 mo. agoFacing unusual lags in specific steam games on tumbleweedI am on the latest snapshot of tumbleweed, and installed steam using zypper. I noticed stuttering and lags in games like hollow knight, nine sols, hades etc, but my other games like silksong or celeste have no issues. I find this very odd since some of these games are linux native. I recently also switched to tlp instead of tuneD, but I can rule it out since the game stutters even when tlp was not installed. I've already tried doing the following but nothing worked.Using a different proton version.Installing Gamemode from zypper.Installing the selinux gaming policy.testing with selinux disabled temporarily.testing with tlp disabled.Running on older snapshots.I am not on nvidia hardware. I use a amd igpu with Ryzen 5 7530U. So it's not a nvidia issue.Has anyone else faced similar issues?? Any help would be massive. Thanks for reading.UPDATE (Solved?): I switched to Flatpak version of steam and face no issues.
Reporting that since I upgraded to KDE plasma 6.5, plasmashell crashes randomly. Reporting that since I upgraded to KDE plasma 6.5, plasmashell crashes randomly.u/Subject-Leather-7399•2 mo. agoReporting that since I upgraded to KDE plasma 6.5, plasmashell crashes randomly.
Installation from Net iso stuck Installation from Net iso stucku/CONteRTE•2 mo. agoInstallation from Net iso stuckI am currently trying to install Tumbleweed. I downloaded the network image and checked the signature and checksum. Everything seems to be fine so far. I have now saved the ISO to a Ventoy USB stick, right next to the ISOs for Arch, Manjaro, and EndeavourOS. I can boot up and the installer starts to install. It tells me something about part 1 of 6 and then continues to 6 of 6. Once that's done, all I see is a NON-blinking cursor on an otherwise blank screen. No further response, no feedback, nothing. The laptop no longer responds to any input. With Arch, I would now switch to another console, but here, nothing happens. I would have expected something to be loading from USB, but I would also have expected some output or other feedback. Even after waiting about 30 minutes, nothing happens. No error message, nothing at all. However, the internet connection seems to be working; I can see at least one other device in the router connected to the internet. No data is being transferred.Does anyone have any idea what I can do?
Tumbleweed - Home folder occupying too much space Tumbleweed - Home folder occupying too much spaceu/bbaabbba58•2 mo. agoTumbleweed - Home folder occupying too much spaceHello Everyone,First things first, I'm extremely new to Linux and all the information so far has been quite overwhelming, which makes solving my issue a little complicated I think.I installed Tumbleweed a few months ago and, as far as I remember, I did the standard installation with the default partitions. The problem I'm having right now is that my/location is constantly full, with a lot of that space being occupied by things like Steam in the/.local/sharelocation.How can I make better use of/main(a 2TB SSD that I dedicated specifically for Linux files) to possibly free some space and prevent other programs from occupying too much space?Thank you for your time.
Installer crashes Installer crashesu/lapis-santuri•2 mo. agoInstaller crashesHello! I'm trying to install opensuse tumbleweed on a new laptop. I used ubuntu as my primary OS on my previous laptop for a few years (would like to try something with rolling releases instead now), and I've played around with a couple other distros. However, I'm having difficulty getting ANY distro set up on my new laptop, and I was hoping someone here might be able to point me in the right direction.Setup:New laptop is an ASUS with an ARM64 processor (Snapdragon(R) X Plus - X1P42100 - Qualcomm(R) Oryon(TM) CPU (3.24 GHz)).Created installation media on a USB with Rufus using the UEFI Arm 64-bit network imageTurned off secure boot and fast boot in BIOSResults:I'm able to boot into the installation menu. When I select installation, it hangs on "loading initial ramdisk" before the screen turns black and it proceeds to boot into windowsThe same thing happens when I edit the installation command to include "nomodeset", something proposed on other threadsAnother suggestion was to use the new agama installer; I tried using the tumbleweed arch64 iso provided there to the same result, including with the failsafe boot option; no matter what, the installer seems to crash (here on "initrd") before booting to windowsIs it possible something is wrong with my BIOS? I'm at a bit of a loss here, particularly since I've never had this type of problem installing a distro before. Any thoughts, gang? I quite like the new laptop outside of the fact that I'm stuck with windows atm 🤮
Bug in Package - should i lock it or just wait? Bug in Package - should i lock it or just wait?u/Wurstbert•3 mo. agoBug in Package - should i lock it or just wait?Hey susis, i used snapper now 2-3 times after an brocken update. I love it. But now the freeRDP package has a bug (already reported). It could take some time until the package gets an update. What would you advise me: not updating at all or locking the freeRDP package? I read locking could lead to dependency problems sooner or later. But i do want to stay up to date with the other packages.
9060 XT - amdgpu not in use ? 9060 XT - amdgpu not in use ?u/sojer2005•3 mo. ago9060 XT - amdgpu not in use ?I installed openSUSE Tumbleweed today and I can't figure out how to enable / configure amdgpu. For some reason, the system is using llvmpipe (about system -https://paste.opensuse.org/pastes/b8c67f5b5795). The result of inxi -GSaz --vs is as follows:https://paste.opensuse.org/pastes/136f27c8b4caMSI motherboard, Ryzen 9700X (iGPU disabled in BIOS), PowerColor 9060 XT. I really don't know what to do. I should add that I have Fedora installed on the second drive and everything works fine.
OpenSUSE + kanidm = ? OpenSUSE + kanidm = ?u/Arctic_Turtle•3 mo. agoOpenSUSE + kanidm = ?I’m curious about kanidm. Tried installing it on my alpine Linux server but it wouldn’t work with SSL. So I’m pondering migration of the server to openSUSE because I assume they play better together.Not having run OpenSUSE as a server before I was wondering if someone might enlighten me with their experience before I just jump in. My server is a raspberry pi btw so it’s aarch64 which might also explain why Alpine had issues.
Discover taking forever to search; flatpak seems to be missing Discover taking forever to search; flatpak seems to be missingu/WindDracoon•3 mo. agoDiscover taking forever to search; flatpak seems to be missing
from Gnome 49 Ibus should be a dependency of Gnome from Gnome 49 Ibus should be a dependency of Gnomeu/prueba_hola•3 mo. agofrom Gnome 49 Ibus should be a dependency of GnomeNewsThe reason is that if not accents and diaeresis that was working before Gnome 49, now doesn't work.source:https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gnome-text-editor/-/issues/822#note_2557571source 2:https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=308465Not sure how to reach this info to the correct person, but openSUSE tumbleweed and slowroll packager forgot make the dependency and the issue happen
Yast Control Center Text Mode color Yast Control Center Text Mode coloru/Emergency_Bedroom275•3 mo. agoYast Control Center Text Mode colorI don't know how I did this in the past. I am want to change Yast Control Center text mode color schemes. Preferably the default blue and yellow.
How can I detect this keyboard layout on KDE Tumbleweed? How can I detect this keyboard layout on KDE Tumbleweed?u/Mice1123•3 mo. agoHow can I detect this keyboard layout on KDE Tumbleweed?
can not find gir1.2-gmenu leap 16 can not find gir1.2-gmenu leap 16u/wbiggs205•3 mo. agocan not find gir1.2-gmenu leap 16How to… ?I'm trying to enable arc menu . But try to use it. It wants me to use gmenu . But when I try to install it says No provider of 'gir1.2-gmenu' found.
Any help for my hp firmware for my RTL8852BE-VT not being recognized Any help for my hp firmware for my RTL8852BE-VT not being recognizedu/Wide-Elevator-9394•3 mo. agoAny help for my hp firmware for my RTL8852BE-VT not being recognizedHi i hope this question is okay here. I’m trying to get the firmware files on another device ind install sobi have wifi in gnome opensuse tumbleweed to update etc any help is appreciated
Tumbleweed update - mesa version conflict Tumbleweed update - mesa version conflictu/TheHexWrench•3 mo. agoTumbleweed update - mesa version conflictTech supportWanted to upgrade my installation withsudo zypper dupand I seem to have a small version conflict with my mesa drivers:Computing distribution upgrade...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2 Problems:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Problem: 1: cannot install both Mesa-25.3.0-1699.2.pm.1.x86_64 and Mesa-25.3.0-1.1.x86_64                                                                                                                                                                                         Problem: 2: cannot install both Mesa-25.3.0-1699.2.pm.1.i586 and Mesa-25.3.0-1.1.x86_64                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Problem: 1: cannot install both Mesa-25.3.0-1699.2.pm.1.x86_64 and Mesa-25.3.0-1.1.x86_64                                                                                                                                                                                          Solution 1: Following actions will be done:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        keep obsolete Mesa-25.2.6-1699.3.pm.1.x86_64                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      keep obsolete Mesa-dri-25.2.6-1699.3.pm.2.x86_64                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  keep obsolete Mesa-libEGL1-25.2.6-1699.3.pm.1.x86_64                                                                                                                                                                                                                              keep obsolete Mesa-libGL1-25.2.6-1699.3.pm.1.x86_64                                                                                                                                                                                                                               keep obsolete libvdpau_r600-25.2.6-2.1.x86_64                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Solution 2: Following actions will be done:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        keep obsolete Mesa-dri-25.2.6-1699.3.pm.2.x86_64                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  keep obsolete Mesa-libEGL1-25.2.6-1699.3.pm.1.x86_64                                                                                                                                                                                                                              keep obsolete Mesa-libGL1-25.2.6-1699.3.pm.1.x86_64                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Solution 3: install Mesa-25.3.0-1.1.x86_64 from vendor openSUSE                                                                                                                                                                                                                    replacing Mesa-25.2.6-1699.3.pm.1.x86_64 from vendor http://packman.links2linux.de                                                                                                                                                                                               Solution 4: install Mesa-25.3.0-1699.2.pm.1.x86_64 from vendor http://packman.links2linux.de                                                                                                                                                                                       replacing libvdpau_r600-25.2.6-2.1.x86_64 from vendor openSUSESince I have no idea where the packman one came from, I would tend to use solution 3 to only keep the OpenSUSE driver (any likely do the same for problem 2), but before I'll end up with having graphic card problems (and then having to ask again after a rollback) I rather ask the professionals here directlyEdit: picked solution 3, games still work, videos still work
More Unity issues - Libxml2 is missing but also not missing at the same time More Unity issues - Libxml2 is missing but also not missing at the same timeu/LotlKing47•3 mo. agoMore Unity issues - Libxml2 is missing but also not missing at the same timeTech supportSo after finally fixing unity ver 2019.4.31f1 I thought i can finally go back and do stuff and when I wanted to get to a comission that needs to use unity ver 2022.3.22f1 I am back in dependancy hellso when I tried to download this wierd libxml thing, it says I already have it installed yet in zypper search it isnt marked as such- I do not know what to do from here. T_TUPDATE: I had to create a symlink and now it just works....For those stumbling across this post with the same problem you can try to make a link using this command:You may need to adjust the ".so.16" part to whatever you have installed for it to work I *assume*, I am no pro at this I just grabbed it off of google.sudo ln -s /usr/lib64/libxml2.so.16 /usr/lib64/libxml2.so.2
A few words based on my experience, and unfortunately very disappointing. A few words based on my experience, and unfortunately very disappointing.u/MainPowerful5653•3 mo. agoA few words based on my experience, and unfortunately very disappointing.Lizard BlogMy computer is relatively new (i7). A few words based on my experience, which is unfortunately very disappointing.Currently, I'm frequently experiencing serious problems: windows get stuck when closing, windows won't open. Windows don't run smoothly when I'm trying to work. For example, if I open multiple windows, the system should be able to reliably close and reopen them.It's really disappointing. I'm actually a big fan of openSUSE Tumbleweed, but I'm sorry to say I have to switch to Fedora for now. It's simply not working like this at the moment.
Broken screen resolution after nvidia drivers update Broken screen resolution after nvidia drivers updateu/Aware_Lecture_5043•3 mo. agoBroken screen resolution after nvidia drivers updateTech supportHello there, I have a OpenSUSE Tumbleweed instalation that worked fine for more than a year, but after a recent update I cannot set my ultrawide screen resolution for some reason.I've already rolled back to the most recent snapshot I had before this problem, but I'd like to know if someone else is having the same issue.The resolution I'm used to use is 2560x1080. With the update to the 580.105 drivers I cant go further than 1920x1080. My HW is a GTX970 card.Seems related: -https://www.reddit.com/r/archlinux/s/WoWIPNgbPp-https://forums.developer.nvidia.com/t/undetected-ultrawide-resolution-upon-upgrade-to-driver-version-580-105-08/350969My snapshot is kinda outdated and im not sure if I can upgrade and then downgrade just the nvidia drivers. What do you guys think?
The state of MESA drivers for Intel battle mage GPU's and other noob questions The state of MESA drivers for Intel battle mage GPU's and other noob questionsu/Itchy_Base_1598•3 mo. agoThe state of MESA drivers for Intel battle mage GPU's and other noob questionsTech questionI am planning to build a pc with Intel Arc B770(I know, that it still has not been released) in 6-9 months from now. I think that Leap 16 might be a great option for it, but I am worried about the support. The kernel of Leap is pretty old and I suppose, that MESA drivers are so as well. Does this problem exist? Are there any ways to solve it without harming the overall stability of the system(as it is the main reason to use it for me).Also, how complicated are updates from one minor version to another? And from one major version to the next one?And the last one: I think that the driver issue can be resolved with 3rd party repos. Are these stable and safe to use? Can they make the update process harder or break the system?Thanks in advance for your help ))
Tumbleweed: missing /etc/security/limits.conf and limits.d Tumbleweed: missing /etc/security/limits.conf and limits.du/lbl_ye•3 mo. agoTumbleweed: missing /etc/security/limits.conf and limits.dSolvedHi,I'm a new Tumbleweed user (about 1 month) and today I discovered that I'm missing/etc/security/limits.conf and limits.dis this normal ? (pam is installed, at least that's what zypper says)
Opensuse yast Opensuse yastu/aroosaiftaab•3 mo. agoOpensuse yastI've installed tumbleweed on my space pc but was wondering if yast is safe to remove?
Apologies Apologiesu/Takina-Inoue242•3 mo. agoApologiesI am sorry for any previous posts I made. I was able to fix my PC and everything is working. I am sorry for any mean posts I made.
Did this subreddit get stuck in June, or did the mods stop checking the calendar? Did this subreddit get stuck in June, or did the mods stop checking the calendar?u/Miguelcr82•3 mo. agoDid this subreddit get stuck in June, or did the mods stop checking the calendar?EditorialLeaving the Pride banner up from June all the way to December isn’t inclusion, it’s laziness.We’ve already gone through All Saints’ Day, several cultural dates, and Christmas is around the corner… yet the banner is still exactly the same.If the intention is to have a permanent banner, cool just say so. But if not, the subreddit just looks like it’s on autopilot.I’m asking for consistency, not starting an ideological war.
PLEASE OpenSUSE, get a better installer. PLEASE OpenSUSE, get a better installer.u/Giggio417•3 mo. agoPLEASE OpenSUSE, get a better installer.Tech support
Zypper package list consistency Zypper package list consistencyu/JMarcosHP•3 mo. agoZypper package list consistencyTech questionCan any Suse dev explain me how Zypper can maintain consistency of the package list after a rollback? Please.openSUSE has a dedicated subvol for/varto exclude it from snapper snapshots, most of the package managers store a database or log about what packages are currently installed in the system.If you try to rollback with snapper using this BTRFS layout in a system like Arch Linux or Debian where you installed afoopackage, APT/Pacman still thinks that package is installed and the database gets inconsistent.But if you try this in OpenSUSE, Zypper can remember what packages are installed at that point in the snapshot.So what's the secret behind this? If all the variable data is excluded from snapshots.In Arch or Debian you need a granular btrfs layout inside /var to exclude things from snapshots.
Discover App Icons Not Loading? Discover App Icons Not Loading?u/trannus_aran•3 mo. agoDiscover App Icons Not Loading?Tech support
I don't understand OpenSuse I don't understand OpenSuseu/Itchy_Base_1598•3 mo. agoI don't understand OpenSuseSolvedI am a new leap user. I wanted to try it out on my spare laptop, but I encounter a lot of strange problems. Previously I used Fedora, so I have something to compare my experience to. 1st problem: acpi error messages on boot. The do not appear neither on fedora, nor on arch with the same bios settings of the laptop. 2nd: no graphical boot screen. Instead of logo or some spinner I just see acpi errors and systemd messages. 3rd: I con not reboot. Every time I try to reboot, it says that there is a user logged in and it can not reboot. 4th: can't use zipper. Right after the login, gnome store starts and takes zypper over, so I can not install anything from the terminal. I really want to love opensuse and consider it a valid option for my future daily driver. Maybe I just don't get something? If you have any ideas, please, share.UPD: thanks to the help in the comments I managed to solve the issue. Thanks to all of you for sharing your experience. What a nice community :)
Tumbleweed Grub-BLS Tumbleweed Grub-BLSu/S1e0rdk•3 mo. agoTumbleweed Grub-BLSHi,I’ve just done a fresh install of Tumbleweed.I wanted a dual-boot setup with encrypted openSUSE and Windows. I first tried installing it with GRUB-BLS, but GRUB did not start. I had to go into the BIOS and manually choose an openSUSE entry. After that it booted, but it didn’t accept the password I had created using a German keyboard layout.I reinstalled Tumbleweed again, this time with GRUB-EFI, and everything worked normally as usual.My questions are:Is everything moving towards GRUB-BLS, and will there soon be no support for GRUB-EFI in openSUSE? Does that mean I will have to switch sooner or later?If not, can I block GRUB-BLS from being installed during a kernel upgrade or any other update?Are the problems I experiencedreal, and is there currently no proper solution for dual-boot with encryption using the German keyboard layout? Or am I just too inexperienced?
AMA: openSUSE developer for 16 years AMA: openSUSE developer for 16 yearsu/bmwiedemann•3 mo. agoAMA: openSUSE developer for 16 yearsCommunityAMA: Linux developer for 16 yearsr/AMA•3 mo. agoAMA: Linux developer for 16 yearsI'm a full-time open-source developer working on Linux distributions - mostly openSUSE (but also helped a tiny bit with Debian and Fedora in the past and also met great people from Arch, QubesOS, Guix and NixOS). Since 2023 I got my own "Slowroll" distribution rolling...Besides that, I care for the niche-topic of "reproducible builds" that are making software safer to use. And strangely related,I improve the chances of computers working after the year 2038.This is my first AmA here, but4 years ago I did one in the openSUSE subthat has some background.I plan to be around for the next 9 hours.Ask me Anything.68upvotes·53comments
Struggling to use Unity editors Struggling to use Unity editorsu/LotlKing47•3 mo. agoStruggling to use Unity editorsTech supportSo this is fairly longwinded but I wanna keep it short for this post- I am unable to create Unityprojects no matter what I do, with my workaround being importing template projects and opening those.After searching and asking around I found I might be missing some dependencies, wich I tried to install, but I am stuck at this one at the momentI tried searching yast and zypper with different searchterms for this libgconf and I just cannot figure my shit out.I am on opensuse Slowroll btw and downloaded UnityHub through flathub. I have tried completely nuking all editor installations, files, hub, etc. and then reinstalling everything butr that just didnt change shit.  TvTany help is greatly appreciated.
broken updates today broken updates todayu/scurrycauliflower•3 mo. agobroken updates todayunfortunately I can't post details because my post gets removed by reddit...
Dual GPU Dual GPUu/mhunt0•3 mo. agoDual GPUTech questionhelllo,I hope this question is ok to post here.I currently use Suse 15.5. I understand it's possible to use 2 different GPUs, even if they are different, I've seem some builds where they put a rather powerful GPU next to a more low profile card.Would that work on Suse ?The last time I read about this, it said that both cards have to the exactly the same.
Grub2-bls gives a far from smooth bootloading experience, how to bring it back to normal? Grub2-bls gives a far from smooth bootloading experience, how to bring it back to normal?u/ProgressiveMind2•3 mo. agoGrub2-bls gives a far from smooth bootloading experience, how to bring it back to normal?Tech questionI recently distrohopped back to opensuse tumbleweed with the agama installer and found out about this new grub2-bls thing goin on.The bootloading isn't as smooth as before even with the default plymouth, with the long list of snapshots showing for a second before showing the bootloader without option to enter bios/uefi, and on clicking a snapshot it displays the snapshot in bold followed by a probe error in top left before bringing up my login manager. Others have reported screen flickering and multiboot errors so I guess this is in fact a grub2-bls issue.Is there a way to bring back the smooth bootloading without all this and without having me reinstall the whole thing again?If possible, how do I replace this new bls thing with the original grub? Help much appreciated
free new fix for speaker issues on Lenovo Legion laptops free new fix for speaker issues on Lenovo Legion laptopsu/lbl_ye•3 mo. agofree new fix for speaker issues on Lenovo Legion laptopsNewshttps://www.tomshardware.com/software/linux/frustrated-users-paid-usd2-000-dollars-to-fix-lenovo-legion-speakers-not-working-properly-error-by-posting-a-bug-bounty-coder-wins-the-cash-by-fixing-complex-audio-annoyance-eliminated-in-just-a-month
autofs bug. autofs bug.u/LowEquivalent6491•3 mo. agoautofs bug.I try to configure autofs for NFS shares.  I do it according to the instructions:https://doc.opensuse.org/documentation/leap/reference/html/book-reference/cha-autofs.html#sec-autofs-nfsBut then when I restart the autofs service, I get an error message:Nov 24 15:12:16 linux-jdkp automount[746909]: open_lookup:68: cannot open lookup module nis (/usr/lib64/autofs/lookup_nis.so: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory)And I still don't get any NFS drives mounted.I guess the autofs RPM package is missing the "/usr/lib64/autofs/lookup_nis.so" file:linux-jdkp:/data4/tmp # rpm -ql autofs /etc/auto.master /etc/auto.master.d /etc/auto.misc /etc/auto.net /etc/auto.smb /etc/autofs.conf /etc/autofs_ldap_auth.conf /usr/lib/NetworkManager /usr/lib/NetworkManager/dispatcher.d /usr/lib/NetworkManager/dispatcher.d/autofs /usr/lib/systemd/system/autofs.service /usr/lib64/autofs /usr/lib64/autofs/lookup_dir.so /usr/lib64/autofs/lookup_file.so /usr/lib64/autofs/lookup_files.so /usr/lib64/autofs/lookup_hosts.so /usr/lib64/autofs/lookup_ldap.so /usr/lib64/autofs/lookup_ldaps.so /usr/lib64/autofs/lookup_multi.so /usr/lib64/autofs/lookup_program.so /usr/lib64/autofs/lookup_sss.so /usr/lib64/autofs/lookup_udisks.so /usr/lib64/autofs/lookup_userhome.so /usr/lib64/autofs/mount_afs.so ............So either there is a problem here. Or the instructions I am using are not complete.
Did Plasma got darker? Did Plasma got darker?u/ManinaPanina•3 mo. agoDid Plasma got darker?New versionOne thing I like about X11 over Wayland is the gamma settings, which allows me to make the dark interface darker.But now I updated Plasma (on Tumbleweed) to version 6.5.3 and Frameworks to 6.20, rebooted and... maybe I'm wrong, but when I opened InfoCenter I got the feeling that the dark was darker.Did SUSE change anything about this? Or the KDE team?
Auto login on Plasma 6 Wayland not working Auto login on Plasma 6 Wayland not workingu/Zebra4776•3 mo. agoAuto login on Plasma 6 Wayland not workingI can't get auto login to work. I see there was a bug about a year ago with SDDM and auto login that was resolved, so this must be a separate issue.Under Login Screen (SDDM) > Behavior > I have Automatically login checked along with my user name (the only user) selected. Session is specified as Plasma (Wayland). Still, whenever I reboot or start up fresh it always drops me in a login screen (SDDM) and I have to input my password. I would like it to drop me into my desktop without asking for a password.
Using for a few days now, is there something similar no PSensor, where I can check temperatures from the taskbar? Using for a few days now, is there something similar no PSensor, where I can check temperatures from the taskbar?u/WindDracoon•3 mo. agoUsing for a few days now, is there something similar no PSensor, where I can check temperatures from the taskbar?Community
Mint or openSuse Mint or openSuseu/Tufa_Cat_1975•3 mo. agoMint or openSuseMint or openSuser/linuxmint•3 mo. agoMint or openSuseHi guys.I love mint. Been using it for several months now.I have a very modern laptop or so they tell me. Lenovo ThinkPad p16v G2 intel i9 ultra, 64 GB , 2 Samsung SSD nvme 990 pro 1 tb each. Nvidia rtx 3000 Ada. Dedicated 8 GB GPU.Mint works very good.I read elsewhere that openSuse tumbleweed could take more advantage of my hardware.I'm running mint 22.2, kernel 6.14xx...Would Open suse be better for working with my hardware?Thanx.27comments
Playstation 5 Remote Play: Touchpad issues. Playstation 5 Remote Play: Touchpad issues.u/Hurizen•3 mo. agoPlaystation 5 Remote Play: Touchpad issues.How to… ?Hello everyone, Has anyone of you ever played with the PS5 using remote play? Is your touchpad working?I'm using chiaki-ng (flatpak) with a PS5 Dualsense controller, connected via USB-C. Everything is working as expected, except for the touchpad that is not working at all.I read a lot of posts but most of them are for Steam deck... Here's what i tried:Disabled touchpad in KDE settings. The dualsense is not acting as a mouse but still not working in chiaki.Disabled the touchpad entirely via a udev rule. Same result.Any ideas on what can be the cause of the problem in 2025?? Thank you!
Not waking up from suspend after fresh install Not waking up from suspend after fresh installu/percipi123•3 mo. agoNot waking up from suspend after fresh installSo as title says my suspend doesn't work, on pop os which I previously used it worked fine, I could close the lid of laptop and it would wake up when I would open it, but freshly installed tumbleweed gnome just hibernates, and opening lid of laptop doesn't work, tapping on keyboard does work, I have to restart it every time. Can anybody help me? Laptop is Lenovo legion 5 with ryzen 5 and nvidia 3060SOLVED: I installed leap and it works
A simple Night Light toggle for the top panel 🌙 A simple Night Light toggle for the top panel 🌙[deleted]•3 mo. agoA simple Night Light toggle for the top panel 🌙New stuffA simple Night Light toggle for the top panel 🌙r/gnome•3 mo. agoA simple Night Light toggle for the top panel 🌙Hey everyone,Just wanted to share a small extension I developed recently. It lets you toggle Night Light with a single click directly from the top panel.I noticed that a lot of the popular alternatives weren't being maintained anymore, so I decided to make a fresh one that supports both the legacy versions (40-44) and the new GNOME 45+.I'm actively looking for feedback to improve it, so I'd really appreciate it if you gave it a try.Extension on E.G.O/GitHub5upvotes·6comments
Not able to DUP Not able to DUPu/Fearless_Card969•3 mo. agoNot able to DUPHow to… !I did a "Sudo zypper DUP" on tumbleweed, I have an error ofFailed to mount cd:/?devices=/dev/disk/by-id/ata-QEMU_DVD-ROM_QM00003 on : Mounting media failedHow do I get around this? I actually dont have a CD drive!I have seen this error before, but I am not able to find the solution.Thanks!Update: Solved, Delete CD from REPO!https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BvfWpT8Ewp8
SLES updates repository errors SLES updates repository errorsu/MiserableNobody4016•3 mo. agoSLES updates repository errorsTech questionAnyone else havoing issues with the updates from SLES 15 repository? I get a digest verification error. The value that is received has also changed a couple of times this afternoon. I understand I can disable the repo but why is this happening? I can imagine paying customers from SLES not being happy at all.Looking for gpg keys in repository Update repository with updates from SUSE Linux Enterprise 15.   gpgkey=http://download.opensuse.org/update/leap/15.6/sle/repodata/repomd.xml.key Retrieving repository 'Update repository with updates from SUSE Linux Enterprise 15' metadata -----------------------------------[\] Warning: Digest verification failed for file '741723e2a34d5e5de8f9cb51d052f264327f5e0b890535f60778447e10e95f3b-deltainfo.xml.gz' [/var/adm/mount/AP_0xXEOx0e/repodata/741723e2a34d5e5de8f9cb51d052f264327f5e0b890535f60778447e10e95f3b-deltainfo.xml.gz]    expected 741723e2a34d5e5de8f9cb51d052f264327f5e0b890535f60778447e10e95f3b   but got  9250f768c9c89df3e01ed4de2fc462ae9681a714637a4abc40bfcb34ae59cbf7  Accepting packages with wrong checksums can lead to a corrupted system and in extreme cases even to a system compromise.  However if you made certain that the file with checksum '9250..' is secure, correct and should be used within this operation, enter the first 4 characters of the checksum to unblock using this file on your own risk. Empty input will discard the file.  Unblock or discard? [9250/...? shows all options] (discard):
Heavy glitching of the Gnome 49 UI after an update Heavy glitching of the Gnome 49 UI after an updateu/GroundlessPractice•3 mo. agoHeavy glitching of the Gnome 49 UI after an updateTech questionThere are flares, flickering, default apps can't properly display themselves. I did a screenshot and can't even get it there))) There were a few "system updates" via the Gnome Software but they didn't help. Anyone else got this? So far Gnome 49 was unstable but at least usable...I initially posted inr/gnomeand someone replied that this "has nothing to do with Gnome and came with the Mesa 25.3.0 update about two days ago in a TW snapshot."Opensuse Tumbleweed, Intel integrated graphics.
Thank god for the automatic snapshots Thank god for the automatic snapshotsu/AscadianScrib•3 mo. agoThank god for the automatic snapshotsI'm a linux noob, been learning to do stuff with the help of chatGPT and I have completely messed up the system twice now. Rolling back a snapshot saved me from reinstalling the whole thing both times. Needless to say I will be much more critical of AI when dealing with system files in the future..
Thinking of switching to OpenSUSE - Tumbleweed or Leap? (use cases listed) Thinking of switching to OpenSUSE - Tumbleweed or Leap? (use cases listed)u/KudzuPlant•3 mo. agoThinking of switching to OpenSUSE - Tumbleweed or Leap? (use cases listed)Tech questionSo I currently bounce around between various distros that tend to either be Arch derived or Debian based. My main use is creating music inside Reaper and Ardour. Updates arent frequent for any VST, LV2 and CLAP plugins but do happen. I do a little bit of light gaming under Steam and some Minecraft but nothing crazy and nothing that isnt supported by Proton software in Steam.Having said this, updates aren't super frequent for my use cases as I like having a stable system that I know I can rely on everyday. From my own personal research, it would appear that Leap is what I would want. I have a few questions though:-Are the same packages available in Leap that are available in Tumbleweed? Its okay if they are not the exact same versiom for my use cases.-When searching on (https://software.opensuse.org/) I can find all my packages I need under Tumbleweed but none under Leap. What is going on here?-How is Pipewire on openSUSE? I plan to use this as my driver. In Arch, I use a few packages like pipewire-jack and pipewire-alsa for ease of use when setting up my DAW software. It "just works" typically thru these and has great latency response.-How is Leap upgraded when LTS runs out? Is there an upgrade tool like in Mint or do you have to reinstall from a fresh .iso?
FYI - if your flatpaks are taking stupid long to launch, you may need to set your domain. FYI - if your flatpaks are taking stupid long to launch, you may need to set your domain.u/computer-machine•3 mo. agoFYI - if your flatpaks are taking stupid long to launch, you may need to set your domain.After a fresh install of Tumbleweed (decided to see if it looks any different from 2018 install after buying new system disk), VLC was taking an inordinate amount of time to launch.Launching from terminal revealed that it was getting hung up on trying to resolvelocalhost.localdomain. Replaced localdomain with my domain, and it now opens immediately, like it had on the old install.I don't recall that being part of the installation, but is standard on Debian.
My customized Opensuse Leap My customized Opensuse Leapu/Doudy34•3 mo. agoMy customized Opensuse LeapCommunity
Device Notifier not check and mount Device Notifier not check and mountu/ArkadiaPalver•3 mo. agoDevice Notifier not check and mountHello. This is my first post in this openSUSE community. I’ve been using Tumbleweed Plasma for just over a month. One feature I liked was that when I inserted a USB drive it would check it and give me the option to repair it, but I see that the action was removed recently because people who inserted 2 TB or 4 TB disks complained that it forced them to check the filesystem (a sign that they had removed it without safely ejecting the drive—who does that with 4 TB of data?). According to what I see inhttps://invent.kde.org/plasma/plasma-workspace/-/merge_requests/5624, that option has been taken out. My question is: do you still have a separate “check filesystem” option, or is the device mounted without any check and the option is gone? Thanks everyone for reading.
Grub Grubu/jormaz46•3 mo. agoGrubTech questionI installed OpenSUSE on a vm last week and that i installed with the smaller disc image. I think it had the newer version of grub as the Grub menu had graphics? Yesterday i installed it on my main rig with the offline disc image but that gave me a text only Grub. Can/should i update Grub if possible?
Gnome deems my laptop not safe, what's up with that? Gnome deems my laptop not safe, what's up with that?u/Thermawrench•3 mo. agoGnome deems my laptop not safe, what's up with that?How to… ?Device Security ReportReport details Date generated:                                  2025-11-20 08:03:42 fwupd version:                                   2.0.16HSI-1 Tests UEFI Bootservice Variables:                      Pass (Locked) TPM v2.0:                                      ! Fail (Not Found) Fused Platform:                                  Pass (Locked) System Management Mode:                          Pass (Locked) UEFI Secure Boot:                              ! Fail (Not Enabled)HSI-2 Tests AMD Firmware Write Protection:                 ! Fail (Not Enabled) IOMMU Protection:                                Pass (Enabled) Platform Debugging:                              Pass (Locked)HSI-3 Tests Pre-boot DMA Protection:                       ! Fail (Not Enabled) AMD Firmware Replay Protection:                ! Fail (Not Supported) Suspend To RAM:                                ! Fail (Enabled) Control-flow Enforcement Technology:           ! Fail (Not Supported) Suspend To Idle:                               ! Fail (Not Enabled)HSI-4 Tests Encrypted RAM:                                 ! Fail (Not Supported) Supervisor Mode Access Prevention:               Pass (Enabled) AMD Secure Processor Rollback Protection:      ! Fail (Not Enabled)Runtime Tests Firmware Updater Verification:                   Pass (Not Tainted) Linux Swap:                                    ! Fail (Not Encrypted) Linux Kernel Verification:                     ! Fail (Tainted) Linux Kernel Lockdown:                         ! Fail (Not Enabled)Host security events 2025-09-17 16:55:35   Linux Kernel Verification  ! Fail (Not Tainted → Tainted) 2025-09-16 23:00:23   Linux Kernel Verification    Pass (Tainted → Not Tainted) 2025-09-06 18:07:00   Linux Kernel Verification  ! Fail (Not Tainted → Tainted)For information on the contents of this report, seehttps://fwupd.github.io/hsi.html
Is it even possible to dual boot Windows 11 and openSUSE Tumbleweed at the moment? Is it even possible to dual boot Windows 11 and openSUSE Tumbleweed at the moment?u/Cooked_Squid•3 mo. agoIs it even possible to dual boot Windows 11 and openSUSE Tumbleweed at the moment?Tech supportHi all,I'd really like to use Tumbleweed as a student but I like keeping Windows as a "just in case" thing. However, I can't actually find a way to add a Windows 11 entry to the boot menu. There is also some software I need that I simply can't run on Linux, so I need WindowsI just started 2 days ago, so by default I have GRUB2 with BLS.I tried adding a .conf for Windows 11 in /boot/efi/loader/entries and it didn't show up, all I see in the bootloader is openSUSE and its Snapper entries.I also read some forums online saying that systemd-boot is better for dual booting anyways, but it seems switching from GRUB with BLS to anything else is currently unsupported...I really wanted to like this distro but unfortunately if there's no way to dual boot right now, it's a total deal breaker for me.Any advice?
limit laptop battery charge to 80% limit laptop battery charge to 80%u/lbl_ye•3 mo. agolimit laptop battery charge to 80%Tech questionHi,some laptops come with windows support to limit the battery charge to 80% (eg. Lenovo) is there any equivalent utility for OpenSuse ?
Performance part 2. Performance part 2.u/Repulsive_Staff_7872•3 mo. agoPerformance part 2.How to… !So, I recently reinstalled my linux install, for the sake of experimenting I first installed debian (with KDE) and it worked perfectly, no lagging and no performance drops out of the blue. Then I reinstalled with opensuse and that's when the performance issue start to come in, for example, if i move  an open window left and right more than 2 times it starts lagging, cpu usage goes too 100 (I assume this is some KDE-opensuse packaging issue??), if i select and unselect (the little blue select box) by dragging the mouse really fast a few times on desktop in a row the same performance hit happens, cpu usage goes to 100%, moving windows spikes cpu usage.. I don't know what could be causing this. I was using xfce and never had as many issues.I don't know if I am supposed to post this in KDE or on opensuse reddit.Keep in mind the only thing i have opened in the background is a browser and nothing intensive is running, it's a pretty clean install. Even when writing a document my cpu usage spikes above normal. This is making it somewhat unusable or annoying to daily drive.edit:As I try to scroll this reddit it's basically unusable lol (I'm using floorp if that could be causing anything)
How secure are community packages on tumbleweed? How secure are community packages on tumbleweed?u/maximus10m•3 mo. agoHow secure are community packages on tumbleweed?Community
I love opensuse, I think it's my favourite distro yet I love opensuse, I think it's my favourite distro yetu/throwtheball8•3 mo. agoI love opensuse, I think it's my favourite distro yet
Goverlay now supports vkBasalt and OptiScaler Goverlay now supports vkBasalt and OptiScaleru/Entr0py64•3 mo. agoGoverlay now supports vkBasalt and OptiScalerNewsGoverlay now supports vkBasalt and OptiScaler.That said, OpenSuse is on Goverlay 1.4, which supports neither, and the official version is on 1.6.1, which you can download from github.OpenSuse needs to get these updates officially added to the repo.
Tumbleweed: encrypted disk asks password two times Tumbleweed: encrypted disk asks password two timesu/vmcrash•3 mo. agoTumbleweed: encrypted disk asks password two timesHow to… !I've installed the latest tumbleweed. For the disk I've selected to encrypt, use BTRFS for root, BTRFS for separate home partition and a separate Swap partition. On boot it asks me for the encryption password before seeing the GRUB, then again for the swap partition. Today I've installed it in a VM, but this time without the separate Swap partition. Now it asks me also two times for the password, before GRUB and for the home partition. How to configure it to only ask for the password one time and use the same password for the other partitions, too?
Tumbleweed – Review of the week 2025/46 Tumbleweed – Review of the week 2025/46u/bmwiedemann•3 mo. agoTumbleweed – Review of the week 2025/46New versionhttps://dominique.leuenberger.net/blog/2025/11/tumbleweed-review-of-the-week-2025-46/
I love openSUSE so much 🥰🥰 I love openSUSE so much 🥰🥰u/Aggressive-Charge-59•3 mo. agoI love openSUSE so much 🥰🥰Community
Just moved from Ubuntu! Just moved from Ubuntu!u/Curious-Listener-YB•3 mo. agoJust moved from Ubuntu!After the Ubuntu 25.10 uutils mess and the way Canonical appeared to treat their users, I've decided to move away. I played a little with openSUSE Tumbleweed on a VM and the experience was good, so tonight I've installed it on my laptop.I'm very happy to join you all in this community!If you have any recommended configurations, tools, or best practices for a newcomer, I’d love to hear them.
My openSUSE(simple but tasteful) My openSUSE(simple but tasteful)u/ToolBound•3 mo. agoMy openSUSE(simple but tasteful)
iFRAC iFRACu/Emergency_Bedroom275•3 mo. agoiFRACiFRACr/openSUSE•3 mo. agoiFRACHello, iFRAC is a game that runs pixels and graphics in the console. Has anyone ever been able to install this game on opensuse? thanks'https://ifrac.tripod.com/pc/ifr_download_linux.html1upvote·4comments
iFRAC iFRACu/Emergency_Bedroom275•3 mo. agoiFRACHello, iFRAC is a game that runs pixels and graphics in the console. Has anyone ever been able to install this game on opensuse? thanks'https://ifrac.tripod.com/pc/ifr_download_linux.html
Opensuse TW grub menu changed Opensuse TW grub menu changedu/shiq_A•3 mo. agoOpensuse TW grub menu changedTech support
KDE Plasma themes KDE Plasma themesu/tobinfrost77•3 mo. agoKDE Plasma themesHello! I use opensuse 15.6 witk KDE and want to install some themes. But everything i want to install doesn't work.PS. Exampe:https://store.kde.org/p/2321775
Why the rush with grub2-lbs? Why the rush with grub2-lbs?u/Poes_Poes•3 mo. agoWhy the rush with grub2-lbs?Tech questionIt comes as default now with Tumbleweed and has some serious issues. Aside from weird flickering screen with black lines, long list of snapshots which makes the screen looks messy and off resolution (how could they missed it?). It also doesn’t support Windows dual booting. This feels like two steps back.
new week new weeku/MainPowerful5653•3 mo. agonew week
A different perspective A different perspectiveu/MainPowerful5653•3 mo. agoA different perspective
Disconnected internal mic that works? Disconnected internal mic that works?u/petersonsilva55•3 mo. agoDisconnected internal mic that works?Tech supportI just installedLeap(Gnome / Wayland) on a laptop which previously had tumbleweed. Either this issue did not occur before the installation or I didn’t notice it because I haven’t used it much this year.The thing is: Gnome doesn’t recognise any microphones. Pavucontrol tells me the internal mic is disconnected / unavailable.However, in Audacity I can record audio just fine using sof-hda-dsp (hw:0,7) as a recording device. There’s also sof-hda-dsp (hw:0,6) but it only records mono.I found out about the microphone, by the way, because there’s a hardware LED to indicate whether the mic is muted, and I can’t unmute it. The orange light indicating it’s muted is always on, pressing it doesn’t change it. I would suspect hardware faults but again, it actually works. I’ve browsed BIOS options, mic is on and, again, it is actually recording stuff. But only Audacity can do it, other apps won’t get it to work (e.g. firefox)It’s a “Tiger Lake-LP Smart Sound Technology Audio Controller Stereo” card, and it’s the only audio ‘thing’ on this setup. I have run alsa-info but have no idea what to do with it, alsamixer shows good capture levels for the thing it displays as the capture device.I really appreciate any help I can get on this
A moment of appreciation A moment of appreciation[deleted]•3 mo. agoA moment of appreciationCommunityI want to take a moment to say how much I appreciate OpenSUSE and the community. Nothing too big, just that I decided to try out some other distros because I'll be setting up a machine for a friend and they are mainly interested in three main intro Linux distributions (Mint, Zorin, Pop!_OS) and so I installed them on VM, and they really make me appreciate OpenSUSE. While no distro is perfect, the sheer breadth of OpenSUSE does it for me.The three Debian options for them are great, and I do enjoy them to varying levels. But I can't get over how consistent and simple our tools are here. I'll be honest I'm still getting a handle on losing Yast, but Myrlyn has been fine, and Agama, while still not as good as Yast, is still way better than others out there.Anyway, thanks team. Love our chameleon.
grub2-bls vs systemd-boot grub2-bls vs systemd-bootu/Unimeron•3 mo. agogrub2-bls vs systemd-bootNewsHi guys!I've just read yesterday's news that grub2-bls is now the default boot loader for Tumbleweed:https://news.opensuse.org/2025/11/13/tw-grub2-bls/The article explains grub2-bls and the improvements compared to grub2. But I wonder what's the difference compared to systemd-boot? Are there any major differences, drawbacks or advantages from one over the other? I'd assume both support FDE, secure boot, snapshots and such? How about reliability, usability and speed?From the outside both look quite similar and even share some of the tools. 😅
Problem with Bootloader not showing windows 10. Problem with Bootloader not showing windows 10.u/Professional_King239•3 mo. agoProblem with Bootloader not showing windows 10.Tech supportHey everyone! First of all, sorry if this is the wrong place to post this. As far as I remember, this is my first time posting something on Reddit 😅So, I have Windows installed on my PC, and with the end of Windows 10 support, I decided to try Linux for the first time. I bought a new SSD and installed openSUSE Tumbleweed on it. Almost everything worked fine, except that I can’t access Windows through GRUB.After searching for tutorials online, I found out that apparently there are two “types” of bootloaders on openSUSE: the one that appears the first time we boot the system (the default one, GRUB 2.12 — the black-and-white one, if I remember correctly), and GRUB2-BLS, which has the openSUSE colors and design, and is configured through YaST.The thing is: every time I boot the system, it goes to the “old” GRUB, and Windows doesn’t show up there. After a few tries, I realized it actually tries to load the “new” GRUB — sorry if that’s not the right terminology — but the screen flashes for half a second and then sends me back to the “old” one.I tried configuring the bootloader in YaST, and if I go into “Boot Loader Options”, it even shows Windows 10 in the list. But, as I said, when I reboot and access GRUB, there’s nothing there except Tumbleweed.Some info about my setup:Secure Boot is enabledWindows and Tumbleweed are installed on different SSDsThe SSD where Tumbleweed is installed is encrypted (set up during installation using the system’s native encryption)Again, sorry if this is the wrong place to ask this, but if someone could help me, I would really appreciate it 😅Edit:It’s me again! After some tries I eventually managed to get it working, and here’s what I did in case someone faces the same problem:(That solved it for me. I'm not an expert in Linux, much less in OS security, so if any of these steps can break something in the system, someone more experienced can feel free to correct me hehe.)First, I reset the drive with the distro on it (there were other boot entries created by the first installation with GRUB, and some not-fully-trustworthy sources said those could “hijack” the boot process — but who knows);After that, I did a clean install of Tumbleweed, changing the boot config to systemd-boot.In my case, this wasn’t enough, so in the terminal (already inside Tumbleweed):sudo mkdir /mnt/win-efisudo mount /dev/sda1 /mnt/win-efi  (< -- Replace "sda1" with the disk that Windows is on. The command lsblk -f shows all drives.)sudo cp -r /mnt/win-efi/EFI/Microsoft /boot/efi/EFI/Then create a directory and a config file:sudo nano /boot/efi/loader/entries/windows.confInside the windows.conf file, put:title Windows 10 efi /EFI/Microsoft/Boot/bootmgfw.efi
OpenSUSE Tumbleweed source code OpenSUSE Tumbleweed source codeu/Klutre•3 mo. agoOpenSUSE Tumbleweed source codeTech question(the short version of my question: which part of the source code is the part that is rolled out every few days for Tumbleweed?)context:So I was trying to find the Tumbleweed source code in the area where you download Tumbleweed  in order to see how frequently it's updated, but I'm a bit confused about the layout of it. I can see that there is a "tumbleweed" and a "distribution" directory, when I clicked the link to the source code I was sent to the "distribution" directory where Tumbleweed was nowhere to be found and the last update was 2 years ago (edits within directories do not appear to be displayed by their parent directories in here so maybe there is more activity here). The "tumbleweed" directory is in the directory alongside it and it does seem to be frequently updated from a first glance, is this where the updates come from when I install the distro?
Weird artifacts in Okular Weird artifacts in Okularu/MasterpieceDear1780•3 mo. agoWeird artifacts in OkularWeird artifacts in Okularr/kde•3 mo. agoWeird artifacts in OkularI've been using KDE for more than a year now and I'm generally pretty happy with the software. However I keep noticing some subtle artifacts when I read pdf files in Okular. It happens randomly, where a line looks like the bottom is slightly truncated. The following is a comparison of screenshots, one with the artifact and one without.The artifact disappears when I scroll the document to a different position.Edit:In trying to reproduce the artifact I also came across a different but similar kind of artifact, as shown in the following images. Here it's not the bottom but the middle of the line. The effect seems to be a missing row of pixels.I assume it's an issue with Okular since I haven't noticed the same artifact in other places in the system. However it could be possible that it exists somewhere else and I simply don't use other softwares enough to notice.I'm using OpenSUSE Tumbleweed with the 6.17.6-1-default kernel on an AMD 7840H machine with the integrated graphics. I could tell that the issue is not related to the kernel version because it's been happening since I had a fresh install of the system over a year ago.The artifact isn't breaking functionality of Okular. But it can be annoying at times. Any idea on why it happens and how I can fix it?1upvote·2comments
Games Repo Slow for USA Download Games Repo Slow for USA Downloadu/sean_999•3 mo. agoGames Repo Slow for USA Downloadhttps://cdn.opensuse.org/repositories/games:/tools/openSUSE_Tumbleweed/x86_64/Tried both "CDN" and "Download" subdomain with same effect. Trying to update Heroic Games Launcher.Around 60-80 KB/s when downloading from US and my other TW downloads were getting 20 MB/s.Noticed this originally in terminal then even tried downloading the RPM from my browser with same speeds.Connected to a German VPN and the download speed through the VPN is 2-3 MB/s (slow-ish but much better than the US speeds).Tried downloading from another East Coast US location via VPN and was met with same speeds, so it's not my ISP throttling the connection.I have not had issues with this repo for previous updates of the application.
fs system issue fs system issueu/TraditionalTreacle78•3 mo. agofs system issueHow to… !so im just yesterday installed latest Tumbleweed and got this error when wanted install timeshift```blx@localhost:~> sudo zypper in timeshiftLoading repository data...Reading installed packages...Resolving package dependencies...The following NEW package is going to be installed:timeshift1 new package to install.Package download size:|     382.3 KiB  overall package size0 B  |  -  382.3 KiB  already in cachePackage install size change:|    1009.1 KiB  required by packages that will be installed1009.1 KiB  |  -      0 B    released by packages that will be removedBackend:  classic_rpmtransContinue? [y/n/v/...? shows all options] (y): yIn cache timeshift-25.07.7-1.1.x86_64.rpm                   (1/1), 382.3 KiBChecking for file conflicts: .............................................[done]error: can't create transaction lock on /usr/lib/sysimage/rpm/.rpm.lock (Read-only file system)(1/1) Installing: timeshift-25.07.7-1.1.x86_64 ..........................[error]Installation of timeshift-25.07.7-1.1.x86_64 failed:Error: Subprocess failed. Error: RPM failed: Command exited with status 1.Abort, retry, ignore? [a/r/i] (a): aProblem occurred during or after installation or removal of packages:Installation has been aborted as directed.Please see the above error message for a hint.```all entrys in GRUB only "Snapper:" are there anyone else encountered same issue and had solved it?
Xen Hypervisor on Desktop Xen Hypervisor on Desktopu/Xaxoxth•3 mo. agoXen Hypervisor on DesktopHow to… !Xen Hypervisor on Desktopr/openSUSE_Slowroll•3 mo. agoXen Hypervisor on DesktopLong time windows guy who's been kicking around the idea of swapping to linux on my main desktop for no reason besides adhd. Ran through a handful of distros in a VM to kick the tires and dropped slowroll on a spare laptop since it spoke the most to me... Mostly due to a fairly streamlined TPM based full disk encryption option that has been mildly successful.I really want to run a hypervisor on the system since I use hyper-v and sandbox in Windows all the time for testing/learning. I tried adding KVM and XEN to my install late last night via YAST and was confused to find that only KVM seemed to be running after I got virtmanager 'working.' I've interacted with KVM a bit via Proxmox at home for running docker LXCs and want to compare it with XEN again because adhd.Did 'my own research' today and gathered that that I'm expected to perform some post-install steps to actually boot from the kernel after the YAST install process... but damned if I can find any official sounding doc that lists the needed steps for a recent version of suse. I tried a fresh install today, selecting XEN from the jump, but it surprised me again by booting up just as before.Bounced it off AI and it confidently told me to edit files that don't exist on paths I don't have as usual. While my background is mainly windows, I work(ed) with vmware quite a bit, alongside various linux servers/appliances. I'm comfortable editing the needed things... just looking for some solid info on what those things are.🦎tl;rdWhat are the correct steps into install XEN, running slowroll in dom0?1upvote·3comments
GRUB BLS glitches on fresh TW install GRUB BLS glitches on fresh TW installu/Original_Two9716•3 mo. agoGRUB BLS glitches on fresh TW installTech support
At my wits end... At my wits end...u/solarend•3 mo. agoAt my wits end...... Admittedly, not a very long journey.So the wife loves linux and wanted to try openSUSE. We have a partition on our gaming rig for her to toy around with. She installed openSUSE, chose KDE Plasma Wayland, and sjowed it to me.Well, it kicks ass. To the amazement of my ignorant poor skull it also turns out linux is fully capable of running my games through proton. I installed nVidia drivers, and booted up Elden Ring via Steam - and that was that. I am officially leaving windows behind! Why on earth would I keep using that trash?! Plex media server works. The UI scales beautifully and effortlessly on my 4K tv. What's not to love?I confidently scraped my SSD clean of MS, and made a fresh installation of openSUSE, and set it to Plasma Wayland... And I have nothing but issues in the very core usage of the machine;- UI scaling doesn't work. It scales, but as soon as I click the menu or network settings, the interface leaves me with a cursor and a black screen. Nothing I try does a speck of difference.- nVidia drivers can be installed, but the damned system refuses to use them. I've been rejected by nvidia-smi in so many ways that it's affecting my mental health. Blacklisting nouveau works nicely though, leaving me with some kind of useless intel driver.- My plex server is suuuper wonky. Unusable on any network devices. Needs to be reclaimed every time I try using it through the SUSE installation. I've tried installing the server software in more ways than I care to describe.... I know it's impossible... But it feels like the previous installation somehow got superpowers from the win10 installation. Everything is a struggle. Before we just flew through youtube-guides with zero effort. No friction what so ever.Am I missing something very fundamental? I could really use a push in the right direction.UPDATE:Guys I solved it... Or reallyIdidn't solve anything, I just discovered that guides are really not necessary. You just need to let the system work for you.I just added the official nvidia rep for tumbleweed, and ran;sudo zypper install-new-recommendsThis has installed the nvidia drivers, which now run perfectly, and sooved the UI scaling issue as well. Which in turn has given me a lot of confidence that I will also solve the plex issue, whatever the hindrance may turn out to be.Wife says hello, she is flattered by the help/praise XD
dracut -f not enough for discard in /etc/crypttab dracut -f not enough for discard in /etc/crypttabu/Original_Two9716•3 mo. agodracut -f not enough for discard in /etc/crypttabTech questionHi, another mystery, on a single NVME fresh TW deployment. I put discard into /etc/crypttab once the LUKS2(Only password) + btrfs root + GRUB BLS system was installed. Then I ran dracut -f thinking it's enough for reboot (and on Ubuntu it was). But fstrim still ignored /.Then some irrelevant updates kicked in and after zypper dup and reboot trimming just works. That's weird. Why so, please?
GRUB2-BLS replaced GRUB — is there a way back in Agama? GRUB2-BLS replaced GRUB — is there a way back in Agama?u/_galao•3 mo. agoGRUB2-BLS replaced GRUB — is there a way back in Agama?Tech questionHello everyone!After some time away, reinstalled openSUSE Tumbleweed and expected the familiar green GRUB2 menu with automatic Windows detection in a dual-boot setup, but instead saw a black-and-white GRUB2-BLS console without a Windows entry or the usual menu features.Eventually, I figured out it is GRUB2-BLS. From the news, I understood that GRUB2-BLS has become the standard replacement for the classic GRUB2 in Tumbleweed.Has anyone installed Tumbleweed recently using Agama? Does it allow choosing traditional GRUB2 instead of GRUB2-BLS during installation, with automatic OS detection for dual-boot? I'd prefer to avoid YaST2 installer if possible. Any experiences or tips appreciated!
NVIDIA 580.105.08 - HDR stopped working in Gamescope? NVIDIA 580.105.08 - HDR stopped working in Gamescope?u/todd_dayz•3 mo. agoNVIDIA 580.105.08 - HDR stopped working in Gamescope?Tech supportAs suggested in the title, I recently updated my Tumbleweed system to NVIDIA 580.105.08, I have HDR enabled in KDE and my connected HDMI 2.1 TV appears to report that both HDR and VRR work correctly, however now when I launch a game from Steam through Gamescope (I've never been able to get game HDR working outside of Gamescope) with --hdr-enabled, I can't enable HDR in the actual games themselves (I've tried multiple)Has anyone else encountered this?
Switching to MicroOS/Podman - is it worth it for me? Switching to MicroOS/Podman - is it worth it for me?u/puzz3d•3 mo. agoSwitching to MicroOS/Podman - is it worth it for me?Hi all, I've been running an RPi 4 home server for several years now (Raspbian + Docker), primarily for Home Assistant, ESPHome, and Mosquitto. I also run other services like Pi-hole, Nginx, Jellyfin, etc. Now I have a new x86 mini PC and want to migrate to it.I was eager to try something new and read a bit about immutable systems, which looked promising at first glance. But now I'm not sure if it's the right choice.My concerns:My Docker containers run as root for /dev/serial access, port 443 listening, or network_mode: host. It seems I wouldn’t benefit from Podman’s rootless mode.It’s not easy to find guides and information compared to, say, a Debian + Docker setup. Even the installation of podman-compose isn’t very straightforward. There are also systemd unit files, quadlets… I’m not sure which approach is best, and whether it will take too much time to set up.Please suggest: should I give it a try?
Can't change kernel parameters using YaST? Can't change kernel parameters using YaST?u/I-Use-Artix-BTW•3 mo. agoCan't change kernel parameters using YaST?Tech supportHello, recently decided to try out Tumbleweed and I've ran into some issues. I'm trying to change my kernel parameters using YaST and it just doesn't update the entry.I'm using GRUB2 with BLS, I'm using secure boot. I've also noticed when I look at the parameters through Grub that the newly added parameters aren't actually there. I am using rEFInd to boot into Grub but this issue also appears when booting straight to Grub. Any changes I make in the "Optional Kernel Command Line Parameter" box are written to /etc/kernel/cmdline. I also don't have the grub-mkconfig or grub2-mkconfig commands available.I'm trying to addamdgpu.ppfeaturemask=0xffffffff intel_pstate=passive cpufreq.default_governor=performanceto the parameters to swap the CPU governer and enable overclocking for AMD.There's also a load of Snapper entries, is it normal for there to be 19 of them?Thank you.Edit: Apparently it is creating the entry with the correct parameters, but it's at the bottom of the Grub boot order and it doesn't contain the information like the UUID so it doesn't actually work.
What is the current situation with YaST? What is the current situation with YaST?u/AscadianScrib•3 mo. agoWhat is the current situation with YaST?Tech questionI'm new to Tumbleweed (loving it btw) and heard that YaST has been deprecated at least on Leap. What does this mean in practice? Is there going to be a replacement? Why is YaST still there if it's deprecated? Shouldn't it be removed from new installationsEdit: Thanks for the answers!
Another migration from AppArmor to SELinux, everything's good Another migration from AppArmor to SELinux, everything's goodu/protocod•3 mo. agoAnother migration from AppArmor to SELinux, everything's goodCommunityComputer migrated from Leap 15.6 to Leap 16 using the migration tool.https://news.opensuse.org/2025/10/01/migrating-to-leap-16-with-opensuse-migration-tool/Everything worked.I just simply had to reinstall git and some tools removed by the migration tool.Then I managed to setup SELinux by following this guide carefully.https://en.opensuse.org/Portal:SELinux/SetupAnd tbh, I was slightly afraid of this migration in particular but everything worked so I switch the enforcing mode quickly.Sorry that's a low effort post but I would like to thank opensuse contributors for their work.Leap is not a fashion distro but it continues to stay my "it just works" system I can trust in terms of reliability.I know the adoption of SELinux is a controversial subject but honestly appreciate it.As a software developer I can say SELinux is challenging in a good way because it forces me to consider each dependency of my project carefully.Especially it helps to identify some flaws in some libraries. Good thing opensuse project decided to go with SELinux by default for Tumbleweed and Leap.Also AppArmor seems to be still supported so people are free to stay with AppArmor if they want. I deeply respect that.I think it's important to say when things works because people are generally more focused about negative post and tend to easily post to this subreddit to complain when they face an issue.However most people stay silent when stuff works as intended. That's why I write this one.Thank you.
How to change my name in bugzilla.opensuse.org? How to change my name in bugzilla.opensuse.org?u/AstolfoKawaii•3 mo. agoHow to change my name in bugzilla.opensuse.org?It seems like bugzilla only shows my last name next to my comments. I don't see an option to change how my name is displayed nor to change the name itself (maybe I forgot to write my first name during the registration). I'd appreciate your help with that issue 😅.Thank you ❤️.
How to downgrade PipeWire to stable branch? How to downgrade PipeWire to stable branch?u/Azarilh•3 mo. agoHow to downgrade PipeWire to stable branch?SolvedI've been having horrible problems with PipeWire where the audio would halt for several seconds at random ( problem i do not have with PulseAudio ), and now that EasyEffects got a new revision, it doesn't work well with the latest devel version of PipeWire ( so i've been told in their GitHub ). Apparently OpenSUSE uses the devel version of PipeWire instead of the stable one, which might also explain my audio problems.I tried to look for a repository to install the stable version but i can't find anything. Any help to keep PipeWire on the stable branch?I am not using Slowroll cos that gives me other even worse problems...
Leap installer fails to boot. Leap installer fails to boot.u/Silly_Percentage3446•3 mo. agoLeap installer fails to boot.Tech supportIt gives some kind of error to do with my AMD GPU, and I end up with a black box with a blinking "_" in the top left.
Why does opensuse has 6 gpg keys and what are their meaning? Why does opensuse has 6 gpg keys and what are their meaning?u/Stuepp-2•3 mo. agoWhy does opensuse has 6 gpg keys and what are their meaning?I'm currently studying about package signature on Fedora and OpenSUSE and I can't find anywhere Why OpenSUSE has 6 keys, and even less the meaning of each key.Also I'm with OpenSUSE Leap 16.0, and not all of it's keys are inhttps://en.opensuse.org/openSUSE:Signing_KeysI get "Following keys are in use:" but there are keys being used and still not listed.Also could not find how the change of keys work in opensuse, it seems to be a mix of per version and if it still secure.
Switching from Tumbleweed to Leap 16.0 for the Nvidia CUDA repository Switching from Tumbleweed to Leap 16.0 for the Nvidia CUDA repositoryu/HerrWinfried•3 mo. agoSwitching from Tumbleweed to Leap 16.0 for the Nvidia CUDA repositoryRecently, I also tried it on Slowroll, but the Nvidia CUDA repository doesn’t work very well. the KMP versions get updated quite late, especially with new kernels and releases. That’s why I’m thinking of switching to Leap, but I’m wondering if the same issue will persist there. Do you have any suggestions for this not so important problem?
What does the (*) mean in some GRUB snapshots? What does the (*) mean in some GRUB snapshots?u/maximus10m•3 mo. agoWhat does the (*) mean in some GRUB snapshots?
LUKS + password only with GRUB EFI LUKS + password only with GRUB EFIu/Original_Two9716•3 mo. agoLUKS + password only with GRUB EFII tried to install Opensuse TW as FreeBSD 15 not out yet. Picked: LUKS + password only with GRUB EFI but it even cannot boot. Installed it twice, definitely not a typo. I don't want GRUB BLS as it's almost inconfigurable once deployed, so opted for GRUB EFI. Installer does not complain but obviously it does not work. My TW attempt was a bit dissappointing :-)
SUSE Linux ... History SUSE Linux ... Historyu/RensanRen•3 mo. agoSUSE Linux ... HistoryCommunity
We cleaned out the storage room at work :) We cleaned out the storage room at work :)u/Embarrassed_Grass552•3 mo. agoWe cleaned out the storage room at work :)
proton-vpn broken with latest update? proton-vpn broken with latest update?u/thunder5252•3 mo. agoproton-vpn broken with latest update?Hi all,has anyone else had a broken protovn-vpn after the last update with zypper dup?I have the proton-vpn package which used to work, now it opens but everytime i try to connect somewhere it gives an error to try again, sorry something went wrong.
Plugin Pluginu/MainPowerful5653•3 mo. agoPlugin
So in love with TW So in love with TW[deleted]•3 mo. agoSo in love with TWCommunity
Local AI Server on a Laptop: Ollama, Qdrant, and Open WebUI on openSUSE MicroOS Local AI Server on a Laptop: Ollama, Qdrant, and Open WebUI on openSUSE MicroOSu/ClientGlobal4340•3 mo. agoLocal AI Server on a Laptop: Ollama, Qdrant, and Open WebUI on openSUSE MicroOSHow to… !Running a complete Local Large Language Model (LLM) stack, especially one supporting Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), demands a robust and efficient infrastructure. The challenge was executing this stack on my Asus VivoBook X510UAR (2017).The key to success was choosing the right base operating system and containerization method: openSUSE MicroOS managed by Podman Rootless using Quadlets. This combination maximized the efficiency of the Intel Core i5–8250U processor and the Intel UHD Graphics 620 integrated GPU.1. The Hardware Foundation and Its ConstraintsThe Asus VivoBook features an 8th Generation Intel® Core™ i5–8250U processor with 4 total cores and 8 total threads, running at a base frequency of 1.60 GHz (up to 3.40 GHz Max Turbo Frequency). The system has 16 GiB of RAM.The primary performance bottleneck for LLMs in this setup is the RAM (16 GiB), followed by the number of CPU cores. Models larger than 8 to 10 billion parameters require the system to use RAM as shared VRAM.The integrated Intel® UHD Graphics 620 GPU, with a Graphics Max Dynamic Frequency of 1.10 GHz, is crucial for latency reduction, but requires specific configuration to ensure optimal use.2. Choosing the Host OS: openSUSE MicroOSI chose openSUSE MicroOS as the host operating system because of its focus on stability and security.Immutability and Stability: MicroOS is an Immutable system, meaning most of the operating system is mounted as read-only. This prevents accidental changes or malware from altering the base system. Changes and updates are handled atomically using Btrfs snapshots and Transactional Updates, allowing for an instantaneous rollback if an update fails.Security through Containerization: Isolating the Host ensures that the only way to run services is through containers (Podman). We adopted Podman Rootless and management via Quadlets, ensuring that no service (including Ollama) could gain root access to the main system.Remote Management: The Cockpit web interface provided crucial remote administration tools, offering clear views of system health, CPU/RAM usage (vital for AI acceleration), logs, and a straightforward front-end for Podman management, including access to the remote terminal.3. The Architecture: Podman QuadletsIn MicroOS, we don’t install packages directly; we use containers managed by Quadlets (.pod and .container files). Quadlets integrate these services directly with systemd --user, ensuring the stack starts automatically and persists after user logout (linger).Crucially, all Quadlet files must be saved in the directory ~/.config/containers/systemd.The architecture is built around a single network Pod, which defines the boundaries for internal communication.3.1. The Infrastructure Pod (homelab.pod)The homelab.pod sets up the shared network namespace and defines the public ports for external access.[Unit]  Description=Homelab  Infrastructure Pod [Pod]  PodName=homelab  PublishPort=9080:8080 ... Other ports ...The AI services (Ollama, Qdrant, WebUI) communicate internally within this Pod.3.2. Ollama Container (Intel iGPU Acceleration)This is the most critical configuration, designed to maximize the use of the Intel UHD Graphics 620 iGPU for model offload and computation. This requires passing the graphics device and setting specific environment variables.[Container] Image=docker.io/ollama/ollama:latest PublishPort=11434:11434 Environment=OLLAMA_HOST=0.0.0.0  #Intel Hardware Acceleration Settings Environment=OMP_NUM_THREADS=8                  # Maximizes 8 threads usage Environment=OLLAMA_INTEL_GPU=true              # Official Intel GPU variable Environment=GGML_OPENCL_FORCE_OFFLOAD=1        # Forces OpenCL iGPU offload Environment=GGML_FORCE_CPU_BLAS=1              # Ensures CPU handles high-precision BLAS calculations  #Persistent volume for models Volume=/mnt/hdd/conradot/ollama-data:/root/.ollama:Z  #CRUCIAL: Passes the graphics device /dev/dri PodmanArgs=--device=/dev/driThe goal is to increase the tokens per second and decrease latency by utilizing the iGPU, while OMP_NUM_THREADS=8 ensures the 8 available threads on the i5-8250U calculate layers that do not fit onto the GPU.3.3. Qdrant Container (The RAG Memory)Qdrant serves as the Vector Database, storing the numerical representations (vectors) of documents, acting as the system’s “long-term memory” for RAG.[Container]  ContainerName=qdrant  Image=qdrant/qdrant:latest  Pod=homelab.pod # Joins the existing Pod  Volume=/mnt/hdd/conradot/qdrant-data:/qdrant/storage:ZBy adding Qdrant to the homelab.pod, it shares the network namespace, allowing the Open WebUI to communicate with it securely using the internal loopback interface (localhost).3.4. Open WebUI Container (The Interface and Orchestrator)Open WebUI provides the user interface, manages users, and orchestrates the RAG process (searching Qdrant, formatting the prompt, and sending it to Ollama).[Container]  ContainerName=openwebui  Image=ghcr.io/open-webui/open-webui:main  Pod=homelab.pod  # Connection to Ollama: Points to the Host IP Environment=OLLAMA_BASE_URL=http://192.168.3.10:11434  # RAG Configuration with Qdrant (Internal access via localhost) Environment=VECTOR_DB=qdrant  Environment=QDRANT_URI=http://localhost:6333  Volume=/mnt/hdd/conradot/openwebui-data:/app/backend/data:ZThe key networking aspect is that Open WebUI connects to Qdrant using http://localhost:6333 (within the shared Pod network), but connects to Ollama using the Host's external IP address (http://192.168.3.10:11434). Pointing to the Host IP for Ollama ensures the traffic exits and re-enters the Podman network interface, offering reliable routing.4. Deployment and Model Selection Deployment StepsOnce all .pod and .container files are saved in ~/.config/containers/systemd:Reload the systemd manager:systemctl --user daemon-reloadStart the Infrastructure Pod:systemctl --user start homelab.podThe AI server is then accessible via a browser on port 8080 of the Vivobook’s IP address. Model StrategyGiven the 16 GiB RAM limitation, the selection of models was critical. The focus was on ensuring responsiveness and maximizing active hardware acceleration. We specifically tested models quantified as Q4_K_M.Phi-3 (3.8B): Used as the quality benchmark due to its strong performance relative to its size.Mistral (7B/3B) and Granite (3B, 1B, 350M): Used to test the scalability and effectiveness of the iGPU offload.For smaller models (like Phi-3), the Intel iGPU acceleration is most noticeable, significantly increasing the tokens per second. For models up to the 8–10 billion parameter limit, the workload is effectively shared between the CPU (8 threads via OMP_NUM_THREADS=8) and the iGPU.This configuration demonstrates that by carefully selecting an immutable OS (MicroOS) and leveraging Podman for secure, optimized deployment, a full local AI stack can be successfully run, even on entry-level mobile hardware.Think of this process like building a high-performance engine (the AI stack) inside a compact car (the Vivobook). You must use the most stable chassis available (MicroOS), ensure every component is isolated and safely secured (Podman Rootless), and fine-tune the existing engine parts (the iGPU and CPU threads) to work together perfectly to maximize output speed, even though the engine itself is small.
[Leap 16] Why are the fonts in firefox so good [Leap 16] Why are the fonts in firefox so goodu/No-Drawing3760•3 mo. ago[Leap 16] Why are the fonts in firefox so goodOne thing that has bothered me for a long time is how terrible fonts can look in the web browser, especially on some Linux distributions. Most of my work happens in the browser, so good font rendering is really important to me. But ever since I installed openSUSE Leap with KDE, everything suddenly looks so much nicer and more readable.The problem is: I can’t figure out what exactly is making the difference. Is it the fontconfig setup, the KDE font settings, hinting, subpixel rendering…? I can’t reproduce the same nice font rendering on my Fedora machine.Can someone explain what openSUSE is doing here, and how I can copy those font settings to another distro? I’m looking for a step-by-step way to replicate this.
gzdoom sound not working after latest update gzdoom sound not working after latest updateu/Entr0py64•3 mo. agogzdoom sound not working after latest updateTech supportSo, I'm not sure what's wrong. Soundcard is detected, kde sound settings let me test left and right fine. OpenAL is installed, gzdoom seems to have picked up the card.alsamixer only shows the master volume on the default.aplay -l lists a MASSIVE document with 256 subdevices PER analog channel output.Sound Card is the PCIe X-Fi. I tried switching to my monitor's speakers over HDMI, this doesn't work either.Would easyeffects cause this? I don't have it enabled though. Everything WAS working until I did an update, now it doesn't work.Update edit: I uninstalled easyeffects. This was the culprit. IDK why it was doing it, the UI seemed to have changed, perhaps an update on their end, the program wasn't very useful or actually easy anyway. I've tried using it for volume normalization, never seemed to work right.
Is there a way to set a Meta+Alt+wheelup (wheel down) shortcut in Tumbleweed KDE? Is there a way to set a Meta+Alt+wheelup (wheel down) shortcut in Tumbleweed KDE?u/Raminagrobi•3 mo. agoIs there a way to set a Meta+Alt+wheelup (wheel down) shortcut in Tumbleweed KDE?Like the title said. I am looking for a way to set up a shortcut to navigate between desktops.That shortcut comes by default in Fedora KDE and Cachyos KDE.
adding additional OpenSuse repos (eg. security) adding additional OpenSuse repos (eg. security)u/lbl_ye•3 mo. agoadding additional OpenSuse repos (eg. security)How to… !Hi,I am a one month user of Tumbleweed and I needed to use veracrypt but it's not in the repos that came installed after some internet search I found a OpenSuse build page which listed OpenSuse security repos unfortunately there was no clear instructions for adding them but I understood the url for Tumbleweed to behttps://download.opensuse.org/repositories/security/openSUSE_Tumbleweed/I gave a repo name of my own and I had to trust a security key (!) and I eventually found veracryptmy question is if I did the right steps security-wise btw. Myrlyn does not list the new repo as OpenSuse one (maybe just because I added it manually ?)also where are these OpenSuse extra repos listed in a single page with their keys ? and if these repos are really from OpenSuse then why not added at installation ?
Hello, a newcomer to OpenSUSE! Hello, a newcomer to OpenSUSE!u/MainPowerful5653•3 mo. agoHello, a newcomer to OpenSUSE!
Remove X11? Remove X11?u/throttlemeister•3 mo. agoRemove X11?Just wondering here. I am running sddm on wayland. I use KDE on wayland exclusively. Technically I have no need for X11, other than for some applications that obviously Xwayland.Do I still need to have X11 installed on my system, or can I safely remove X11 without breaking anything?
Can't get minecraft LAN to work Can't get minecraft LAN to worku/Thermawrench•3 mo. agoCan't get minecraft LAN to workTech questionI have two computers with opensuse TW. If i disable the firewall on both LAN then works. So my thinking is that i just need to open the port for 25565 (a port that java minecraft uses) when i have the firewall up for it to work. Doesn't work for some reason. Neither computer can discover each other.Any clues?
Old school big KDE geco icon Old school big KDE geco icon[deleted]•3 mo. agoOld school big KDE geco iconHi!I’m wondering if I can make modern openSUSE look like old-school openSUSE in the KDE desktop, with the big gecko icon.Something like this:Is there any plugin or any way to do it? If so, how?Thank you!
Fingerprint reader Fingerprint readeru/kelsier23•50 min. agoFingerprint readerHi there, i really would like to be able to use the fingerprint reader on my huawei matebook d14 wich uses thisBus 001 Device 003: ID 27c6:5125 Shenzhen Goodix Technology Co.,Ltd. Goodix Fingerprint Devicesadly that device is not listed herehttps://fprint.freedesktop.org/supported-devices.htmlis there another solution to this?
Everybody. Everybody.u/LinuxSaltyKing•5 days agoEverybody.
An Absolute Cinnamon of an Experience - Provided by Minty (MEME) An Absolute Cinnamon of an Experience - Provided by Minty (MEME)u/SpeeQz•8 hr. agoAn Absolute Cinnamon of an Experience - Provided by Minty (MEME)Fluff
My first day, and my first problem: I deleted that bar at the bottom, how do I get it back? My first day, and my first problem: I deleted that bar at the bottom, how do I get it back?u/undrock•28 days agoMy first day, and my first problem: I deleted that bar at the bottom, how do I get it back?SOLVED
always back to mint always back to mintu/frozther•7 hr. agoalways back to mintDesktop Screenshot
Linux Mint plans to make fewer releases per year. What do you think? Linux Mint plans to make fewer releases per year. What do you think?u/BlokZNCR•1 day agoLinux Mint plans to make fewer releases per year. What do you think?Discussion
Escaping the carnage... Escaping the carnage...u/Miserable-Canary-721•10 hr. agoEscaping the carnage...
First time booting Linux Mint at 34 — and it felt symbolic First time booting Linux Mint at 34 — and it felt symbolicu/Sandfox91•2 hr. agoFirst time booting Linux Mint at 34 — and it felt symbolicLinux Mint IRL
Finally installed Mint. Bye Microslop. Finally installed Mint. Bye Microslop.u/Dreaksfrendford•14 days agoFinally installed Mint. Bye Microslop.
Can you actually virus Linux Mint? Can you actually virus Linux Mint?u/Disastrous_Snow_7706•6 hr. agoCan you actually virus Linux Mint?DiscussionHey! Windows ex-user for like 13 years. Recently moved to Linux. Distro hopped for months until Mint cured me. Now I actually had in mind: Can you actually get a virus on Linux Mint?
What do you think of the new menu? What do you think of the new menu?u/ShadowByte07•3 days agoWhat do you think of the new menu?
Minty Flat (Flat Version of Minty from SpeeQz) Minty Flat (Flat Version of Minty from SpeeQz)u/Adler-real•6 hr. agoMinty Flat (Flat Version of Minty from SpeeQz)Fluff
Please don't hate me for this - I had good intentions 😔 Please don't hate me for this - I had good intentions 😔u/dr-leonard-m•5 days agoPlease don't hate me for this - I had good intentions 😔Desktop Screenshot
My friend.... X201 My friend.... X201u/Embarrassed_Fruit462•18 hr. agoMy friend.... X201Discussion
What happened to linux mint? What happened to linux mint?u/Redpandabear39•22 days agoWhat happened to linux mint?SOLVED
Anyway to use HDR on Linux mint desktop like on windows? Anyway to use HDR on Linux mint desktop like on windows?u/KFCBUCKETS9000•2 hr. agoAnyway to use HDR on Linux mint desktop like on windows?DiscussionIts not a big deal if I can't, I just wanted to use HDR in games.
This is how my laptop looks with XFCE This is how my laptop looks with XFCEu/lux_78•6 days agoThis is how my laptop looks with XFCE
A question about Dolphin A question about Dolphinu/Baskier_31•7 hr. agoA question about DolphinHaving tried different file managers, Dolphin is the undisputed champion; convenient, practical, very useful, and incredibly user-friendly.It took me a day or two to find the settings I found most comfortable (like enabling the "show in groups" function to organize by tags, or remembering the display style for each folder, instead of them all sharing a single style). But there's still something I can't seem to do, and I don't know how.Image files—JPG, PNG, ICO, etc.—aren't displayed when I browse the folder where they're saved; instead, they only show a generic icon for their format.However, if I press F12, the preview activates, not just for image files, but also for the folders containing them. I don't like how the images overlap the folder icon. If I have images and a subfolder in the same location and enable preview, I can see both the images and their file icons, as well as the images I have saved in a folder.It's not a big deal, it's not that annoying, but I don't like how it looks, and I'd like to know if there's a way to separate these two functions.
How do you retro game? How do you retro game?u/No-Blueberry-1823•7 hr. agoHow do you retro game?GamingI've already figured out for example that AMD cards are generally better than Nvidia cards for compatibility. I'm trying to figure out now what's the best solution to play older video games whether it be emulating Atari,NES,etc or playing some MSDOS classics. I'm aiming for as easy as set up as possible as well as full screen and not windowed gaming. Any suggestions would be appreciated
Finally, i escaped Microslop Finally, i escaped Microslopu/tvoy_lanch•16 days agoFinally, i escaped Microslop
Noob here, been stuck with kernel panics Noob here, been stuck with kernel panicsu/Expyrial•6 hr. agoNoob here, been stuck with kernel panicsGraphics DriversI'm new to Linux, I switched from Windows. I've been having kernel panics and no clue how to fix it. I've already done a fresh install, and that didn't work. The panics don't trigger in compatibility mode, but I don't know which driver is causing the issue. I have a Dell Latitude 7490 with an 8th gen Intel i5 CPU. I'll post the exact specs in a comment. Any help would be appreciated
Microsoft kicked me in the ass 4 months ago... Microsoft kicked me in the ass 4 months ago...u/Putrid-Cut-4983•4 days agoMicrosoft kicked me in the ass 4 months ago...Desktop Screenshot
I somehow managed to break tje whone thing and I don't know if I want to even try to fix it or just find a nice field and blow up my laptop there I somehow managed to break tje whone thing and I don't know if I want to even try to fix it or just find a nice field and blow up my laptop thereu/vipanen•9 hr. agoI somehow managed to break tje whone thing and I don't know if I want to even try to fix it or just find a nice field and blow up my laptop thereSOLVEDI tried to install DaVinci Resolve, didn't work, tried to fix it, somehow that made it so when I try and restart my laotoo it only shows the Linux Mint logo and nothing else at all.I've tried everything that I can think of and I'm starting to lose my mind.I don't even know if I need tech support or emotional support more at this point.I'm fully fine with any solution even if I have to completely restart with Linux since I barely had anything there yet to lose. (I talking like one wallpaper I found online and a couple themes which I can both get back easily)I'm sorry I can't really provide any specific details of what went wrong since I can't remember them and can't access them either due to the very issue at hand.Edit: I just rebooted the whole thing
My kid is in the screen-dependent age, and we have to collect phones, pads etc. every night so that he even attempts to sleep. Just figured out he had used his laptop, too, late on school nights. Claims this registered without him even starting the PC. Is this possible? My kid is in the screen-dependent age, and we have to collect phones, pads etc. every night so that he even attempts to sleep. Just figured out he had used his laptop, too, late on school nights. Claims this registered without him even starting the PC. Is this possible?u/goopeebaloopee•28 days agoMy kid is in the screen-dependent age, and we have to collect phones, pads etc. every night so that he even attempts to sleep. Just figured out he had used his laptop, too, late on school nights. Claims this registered without him even starting the PC. Is this possible?Support Request
Bye bye Windows Bye bye Windows[deleted]•1 mo. agoBye bye Windows
Real? Real?u/IsHyperactive_•5 days agoReal?
New User trying to verify ISO New User trying to verify ISOu/MentallyIllDM•3 hr. agoNew User trying to verify ISOInstall HelpNew user on an old t420 starting the switch from windows 10, but the sha256sum files download link isn't working. (they downloaded from the mirror but won't from Mint's site) Is there a part of the process I'm mixed up on? Used "save link as..." but Windows says i have a network issue (which i do not) Any advice appreciated
I installed protonvpn and after restarting, my desktop looks completely different I installed protonvpn and after restarting, my desktop looks completely differentu/ExcellentSilver8763•6 days agoI installed protonvpn and after restarting, my desktop looks completely differentSupport Request
How much ram do cinnamon desktop consume out of the box with no software apps opened? How much ram do cinnamon desktop consume out of the box with no software apps opened?u/Inevitable-Depth1228•7 hr. agoHow much ram do cinnamon desktop consume out of the box with no software apps opened?DiscussionBonus question: do putting themes and customizing the desktop put extra ram usage on top of what cinnamon already use?
I upgraded from Windows 10 to Linux Mint 22.3 rather than Windows 11! I upgraded from Windows 10 to Linux Mint 22.3 rather than Windows 11!u/paravantis•13 days agoI upgraded from Windows 10 to Linux Mint 22.3 rather than Windows 11!Desktop Screenshot
Good deal for a possible mint machine or not worth it? Good deal for a possible mint machine or not worth it?u/Salad_Slug-7981•2 days agoGood deal for a possible mint machine or not worth it?
20 Years Of Microsoft Torment, Over 20 Years Of Microsoft Torment, Overu/FizzBizzcuits•4 days ago20 Years Of Microsoft Torment, OverDesktop Screenshot
Looking for an easier internet radio experience Looking for an easier internet radio experienceu/Murky_Construction82•8 hr. agoLooking for an easier internet radio experienceI like Shortwave for listening to a single radio station in the background while I work. What I'd like to do is bind F4 to start the radio playing on that station without opening up the window and getting in the way. Ideally, I'd also like to bind Shift+F4 to mark the current song to save it permanently to my computer.I can bind F4 to start Shortwave using the Keyboard app, but it only opens the GUI so I have to click that station to start and then close out. If I want to save the currently playing song I have to open Shortwave and click around, and then close out.I tried doing this with the commandline, but I can't find a list of commands anywhere that I can use with the Flatpak version of Shortwave. I also tried streamripper, but that just grabbed literally every song in the queue. I was able to stream it properly with VLC, but I couldn't get it to run without opening the window.Does anybody have alternative programs they could recommend? Have I simply missed the Flatpak Shortwave commands that would allow me to control this from commandline?
To update Mint from 22.2 to 22.3 there's a mandatory check box that is barely visible. I think the design of the check box should be changed to make it more obvious. To update Mint from 22.2 to 22.3 there's a mandatory check box that is barely visible. I think the design of the check box should be changed to make it more obvious.u/diHobbes•5 days agoTo update Mint from 22.2 to 22.3 there's a mandatory check box that is barely visible. I think the design of the check box should be changed to make it more obvious.Discussion
Installer has detected the following disks have mounted psrtitions Installer has detected the following disks have mounted psrtitionsu/Lewhitefrenchguy•3 hr. agoInstaller has detected the following disks have mounted psrtitionsInstall HelpGood day, I was trying to install mint on a new ssd  and I got that message on the installer on a drive that I don't want to install mint on, for clarification I have 3 drives installed at the moment, 2 were being used beforehand in the computer and the third is blank and I want to install mint on it. I checked the disk manager and saw that the drive with moutter partitions is not the one I want linux on
My linux mint is freezing and I can't do nothing but to restart My linux mint is freezing and I can't do nothing but to restartu/StickNeither•10 hr. agoMy linux mint is freezing and I can't do nothing but to restartMy linux mint is freezing and I can't do nothing but to restart. I have a i5 8th gen coffee lake processor 32 gb ddr4 2666hz ram and a 3gb nvidia video card that supports 4k monitor ( is used 4k monitor a very long time) recentlly bought ( 2-3 months ago 950gb ssd ) installed linux mint cinnamon. It was working fine until a few days ago when it suddenly started to freeze when I browse the internet, I use brave. I don't really know why, I mean I boot up browse the net and after a time it freezez, but not always. I don't want to go back to windows 11 to be honest. And I don't really want to install ubunu eighter ( not that it matters but I have grown custom to mint ) Please Help.
A gentle Linux intro for curious people A gentle Linux intro for curious peopleu/LicenseToPost•23 days agoA gentle Linux intro for curious peopleDesktop Screenshot
If you squint, it's Mint If you squint, it's Mintu/isak99•8 days agoIf you squint, it's MintDesktop Screenshot
Why LM is superior. Very thoughtful. Why LM is superior. Very thoughtful.u/decrobyron•16 hr. agoWhy LM is superior. Very thoughtful.#LinuxMintThingsWhen you search input method, it is just so easy to use CJK+ languages.No need to go terminal, no need for google search. Everything is there. Even installation button is there. Zero confusion. Step by step detail is right there. Many don't know how great it is. Thank you devs.한글 사용이 이렇게 편할 줄 누가 알았을까요.
Linux mint es ligero en mi lenovo 1i Linux mint es ligero en mi lenovo 1iu/Medium-Beyond401•4 hr. agoLinux mint es ligero en mi lenovo 1i
Random message pops up about Network connection has been lost Random message pops up about Network connection has been lostu/jnelsoninjax•9 hr. agoRandom message pops up about Network connection has been lostSupport RequestI randomly get a pop-up message saying the network connection has been lost, but as far as I can tell, the connection isn't actually lost—it's still active. I'm running a VPN through WireGuard, and the underlying connection is wired, so I'm really curious what's causing this error message to appear and whether there's anything I can do about it. This is Linux Mint 22.3 with Cinnamon 6.6.7.
Silly guy helped me install mint last night Silly guy helped me install mint last nightu/MsNull•6 days agoSilly guy helped me install mint last nightFluff
Do you like neon? I have a wallpaper for you. Do you like neon? I have a wallpaper for you.u/NeoFury84•1 day agoDo you like neon? I have a wallpaper for you.Desktop Screenshot
Mint on MacbookAir Mint on MacbookAiru/JohnnyBron•11 hr. agoMint on MacbookAirI’ve been running LinuxMint Cinnamon on a 2013 MacBook Air with 4MB ram and it works great. It’s a bit sluggish when I load FreeCad but otherwise it runs great. The only thing is I can’t get the camera to work… in my opinion that’s pretty damn good! I’ve extended the life of an obsolete piece of hardware and I dig that!
So happy with my switch from Windows So happy with my switch from Windowsu/MetalWarlock•11 days agoSo happy with my switch from Windows
Why I've Left Microsoft Windows Why I've Left Microsoft Windowsu/CMSmithPhD•4 days agoWhy I've Left Microsoft Windows
can't load limbus company on ts can't load limbus company on tsu/Intelligent_Room5538•4 hr. agocan't load limbus company on tsyou waddup linux mint fam uhhh im running a lenovo c560 with a sata ssd and 12 gb of ram on ofc linux mint, but I can't load limbus company even if I have Proton and when I put the proton_use_wined3d %command% so any ideas? p.s whenever I try and launch it there's a chance I get GraphicsEngine failed or sum like thatCpu: Intel i3-4150t (4) @ 3.000ghzGpu: intel 4th gen core proce
Trees in Nemo's List View? Trees in Nemo's List View?u/djthecaneman•15 hr. agoTrees in Nemo's List View?SOLVEDI just upgraded my Mint system last night to 22.3. So far so good except for one thing. When Nemo is displaying a folder in List View, it no longer seems to allow you to drill down the folder tree. The ability to drill down into multiple subfolders in the same view has been fundamental to my workflow for years. So is there a setting that I've missed? Or was that feature removed?Edit: Thanks tou/whosdrfor pointing out "Edit - Preferences - Show folder expanders". Mornings are not my best.
Windows consumes almost 6x times more ram than Mint doing NOTHING Windows consumes almost 6x times more ram than Mint doing NOTHINGu/True_Jester_lnx•20 days agoWindows consumes almost 6x times more ram than Mint doing NOTHINGDiscussion
sah256 is broken?(NEED HELP) sah256 is broken?(NEED HELP)u/Miserable-Canary-721•11 hr. agosah256 is broken?(NEED HELP)SOLVEDso i wanna get mint xfce on my laptop bc windows 11 is just too reasource heavy, but the sha 256 .txt and .gpg,aren't working, im gonna go install it now anyways,was wondering if there was any way to get past that?also a lil bonus question, i play games with anti cheat,should i dualboot windows 11 and linux mint and then games i cant play with proton,i will just play with windows(sorry for spelling mistakes,wrote it in a rush)
Mudanças na Area de Trabalho Mudanças na Area de Trabalhou/mago_okkulto•16 hr. agoMudanças na Area de Trabalho
Trying to make Documents folder point to my Windows folders Trying to make Documents folder point to my Windows foldersu/old_raver_man3•23 hr. agoTrying to make Documents folder point to my Windows folders
Just set up my first linux installation Just set up my first linux installationu/Street_homie•7 days agoJust set up my first linux installation
lmde7 lmde7u/SaudiRailway•5 days agolmde7Desktop Screenshot
Welp I broke Linux Mint Welp I broke Linux Mintu/Confident-Pea9437•4 days agoWelp I broke Linux Mint
Trying to verify the ISO: sha256sum.txt and the gpg files won’t download Trying to verify the ISO: sha256sum.txt and the gpg files won’t downloadu/Meeltdoown•4 hr. agoTrying to verify the ISO: sha256sum.txt and the gpg files won’t downloadInstall HelpI'm technically illiterate but decided to try Linux anyway. Switching browser didn't help. Could it be because I'm hotspotting internet from my phone? Or is it a problem with the site?
newbie needs help with a corrupted nvme newbie needs help with a corrupted nvmeu/Dryed_M4NG0_UWU•5 hr. agonewbie needs help with a corrupted nvmeSupport Requestim fresh to linux and my second nvme is appearently corrupted. terminal says after running the command ntfsfix "unrecoverable error, volume is corrupt. you should run chkdsk"this seems like a specific problem, any help is appreciated.(Edit) Issue found. Bitlocker encrypted my ssd. Ill try to troubleshoot using a bootable windows flashdive and then use the repair option. If anyone can provide extra help Id highly appreciate it. Also fuck microsoft and windows
I really love it I really love itu/andresucko•1 day agoI really love itDesktop Screenshot
bye bye windows👀🔥 bye bye windows👀🔥u/Demo_MVP•6 days agobye bye windows👀🔥
Outliving everyone’s battery in uni during statistics Outliving everyone’s battery in uni during statisticsu/OutOfMind123•22 days agoOutliving everyone’s battery in uni during statistics
That's it, now I don't need winbloat for whatsapp calling anymore!! That's it, now I don't need winbloat for whatsapp calling anymore!!u/nitin_is_me•2 days agoThat's it, now I don't need winbloat for whatsapp calling anymore!!
Brother Printer Works Perfectly Out Of The Box On Mint Brother Printer Works Perfectly Out Of The Box On Mintu/PrivacyEnjoyer420•10 days agoBrother Printer Works Perfectly Out Of The Box On MintDiscussion
Thinking about streaming, is there anything like "streamlabs" that can run natively on LM? Thinking about streaming, is there anything like "streamlabs" that can run natively on LM?u/msaqu92•5 hr. agoThinking about streaming, is there anything like "streamlabs" that can run natively on LM?GamingI know there is a OBS pluggin, but not sure if that works on linux obs?Thanks!
Fascinating Experiment (At least for Me) Fascinating Experiment (At least for Me)u/FeistyDay5172•6 hr. agoFascinating Experiment (At least for Me)Was wanting to look into maybe a 2nd distro to dual-boot with Mint.So, I created a Ventoy flash drive with 6 different desktop environments of Fedora.Cinnamon, MATE, and KDE all looked pretty good.Xfce was kinda so-so.The GNOME (aka Workstation) was just plain UGLY.If I decide on one, it would most likely be the KDE one.
What made you use Linux Mint? What made you use Linux Mint?u/BlokZNCR•3 days agoWhat made you use Linux Mint?
Switched to Linux mint because Microsoft forced update at 2 am, feeling much better Switched to Linux mint because Microsoft forced update at 2 am, feeling much betteru/Gamer2022__•11 days agoSwitched to Linux mint because Microsoft forced update at 2 am, feeling much betterDesktop Screenshot
USB Audio Issue USB Audio Issueu/Steve2734•13 hr. agoUSB Audio IssueSupport RequestI’m hoping somebody, somewhere has an idea. Cross posting to Linux and Fosi subs.Linux Mint 22.3 T2 version dual boot with MacOS 26 on 2019 16” MacBook Pro, i9.Audio device: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD/ATI] Navi 10 HDMI AudioSubsystem: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD/ATI] Navi 10 HDMI AudioFlags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 103, IOMMU group 2Memory at 815a0000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]Capabilities: <access denied>Kernel driver in use: snd_hda_intelKernel modules: snd_hda_intelI have a Fosi MC-331 amp that won’t work with Linux USB and Bluetooth audio.I have a dual boot system, Linux Mint and MacOS on a 2019 Macbook Pro. I used USB digital audio and Bluetooth out from the MacBook to the Fosi amp under MacOS without issue and it still works when I boot to MacOS.I am switching to Linux which turns out is not easy on a T2 security chip Mac. One of the snags is audio. When I’m booted to Linux I can see the Fosi amp in sound settings, I can select it but no music happens. I get audio via the laptop speakers and headphones perfectly. I can use USB digital audio to drive a Fiio DAC and that works perfect. Not the Fosi. When I disconnect the USB cable the audio immediately switches to the MacBook speakers, so the Mac knows it’s connected to USB.I have opened a ticket with Fosi over a week ago with no response but I’m not surprised.TL;DRUSB audio worked perfect in MacOS.Linux USB audio and Bluetooth works perfect with FIIO DACLinux USB audio and Bluetooth does not work with Fosi amp.
I can't change these ugly and annoying taskbar icons! I can't change these ugly and annoying taskbar icons!u/Cherie_09•22 hr. agoI can't change these ugly and annoying taskbar icons!
Raid Shadow Legends authentication issue Raid Shadow Legends authentication issueu/SweetestJP•6 hr. agoRaid Shadow Legends authentication issueSOLVED
Black screen on the login screen Black screen on the login screenu/Lonlest•7 hr. agoBlack screen on the login screenSupport Request
grandpa saved! grandpa saved!u/No-Diamond-9290•9 days agograndpa saved!Desktop Screenshot
🌊 🌊u/Jopx_6•2 days ago🌊
Let me introduce you to my new friend, Zena. Let me introduce you to my new friend, Zena.u/vendol21•3 days agoLet me introduce you to my new friend, Zena.Desktop Screenshot
I made some Rei Ayanami wallpapers for Linux Mint. Hope you like them! I made some Rei Ayanami wallpapers for Linux Mint. Hope you like them!u/Blackbird_song13•6 days agoI made some Rei Ayanami wallpapers for Linux Mint. Hope you like them!#LinuxMintThings
I laid my hand on the best distro I laid my hand on the best distrou/shankaran_•4 days agoI laid my hand on the best distro
Are my daily programs supported Are my daily programs supportedu/-Eekii-•18 hr. agoAre my daily programs supportedGreetings all, I've been eyeing Linux for a while now and want to make the switch from W11 to Mint.I want to go full in on Mint, so no dual bootHowever, compatibility concerns keep me from doing it. Could you good folk help me out?I am not clear on the usability of the following old programs I still use regularly:* Paintshop Pro 9 (2004)* Adobe Suite CS 5.5 (2011)games* Star Trek Online* Warframe* Helldivers II* Deep Rock Galactic* No Rest for the WickedAre there compatibility issues with* Nvidia (Laptop RTX 4060)* Steel Series M+K* Synology.
Linux Mint 22.3 suddenly won't boot up. Linux Mint 22.3 suddenly won't boot up.u/cacotadeluxe•1 day agoLinux Mint 22.3 suddenly won't boot up.Support Request
Bought a brand new Netbook and immediately put Mint on it Bought a brand new Netbook and immediately put Mint on itu/o4uXv0•25 days agoBought a brand new Netbook and immediately put Mint on itLinux Mint IRL
mint freezes/crashes, can’t do anything except force reboot via power button mint freezes/crashes, can’t do anything except force reboot via power buttonu/wiglessleetaemin•19 hr. agomint freezes/crashes, can’t do anything except force reboot via power buttonSupport RequestINFO;thinkpad p14s gen 6 AMD AMD Ryzen 9 Pro Western digital blue SSD 4tb 96gb DDR5 Micron Crucial ramcurrently running most recent mint cinnamon, and this has been happening since i installed linux on the first day!!when doing anything (light web browsing, watching video, going through folders, playing any games) after it’s been on for a little while, the whole box freezes. i can move my cursor around the screen but can’t click anything, open the terminal, move windows around, no functionality.all drivers are updated. i can’t open the terminal when this happens, i can’t click on anything to be able to reboot, and i can’t short-click the power button for options (suspend, restart etc.)my only option to get it back to normal each time is to force reboot holding down power button, which is bad. i’ve searched the internet since i put linux on this box and can’t find a solution that works
Is Cinnamon a Good Choice for Me? Is Cinnamon a Good Choice for Me?u/Renoitrex•1 day agoIs Cinnamon a Good Choice for Me?SOLVED￼Hello! I'm looking to switch from Windows 11, and I've decided on Mint. My only requirements are:Good for gaming (most games I play aren't that performance heavy, but I do play some online games)Good for normal, day-to-day activity (both personal and school stuff)I have my eyes on Cinnamon because it's the closest to Windows, but I understand that it requires some specs. I think my specs are OK, but my biggest concern is this:Will future Cinnamon updates force me to upgrade my laptop? I likely won't have the budget for computer parts, so this is an important thing before I decide on a version. Will this be a problem?Thanks in advance!
WebGL not supported on Chrome, linux issue or browser issue? WebGL not supported on Chrome, linux issue or browser issue?u/Just-Signal2379•20 hr. agoWebGL not supported on Chrome, linux issue or browser issue?Support RequestI am at a loss here. I can't access a specific Figma file on Chrome for work it keeps on saying WebGL is not supported yada yada. It has been fine for a very very long time just until now.I already tried enabled and disabled and re-enabled Graphics Hardware Acceleration, since that's what's most article are saying but no use.Device:Thinkpad T14 Gen 1, Linux Mint 22.3 Kernel 6.8, AMD Ryzen 5 4650u 32gb ramThinkpad X13 Gen 2, Linux Mint 22.3 Kernel 6.8, AMD Ryzen 5 5650u 16gb ramMaybe you guys could help or help me whether this might be a linux issue or browser issue?Or if i put my thin foil hat...might be a way corporations to obsolete old devices lol
Dell Latitude 5400 stuck on black screen Dell Latitude 5400 stuck on black screenu/BussyEater6•21 hr. agoDell Latitude 5400 stuck on black screenSupport Request
Huge fan of Minty Huge fan of Mintyu/TheAutistSupreme•3 days agoHuge fan of MintyFluff
Today I released a new icon set for Mint, based on Mint-Y Today I released a new icon set for Mint, based on Mint-Yu/tn3tenba•1 mo. agoToday I released a new icon set for Mint, based on Mint-Y
Currently on Debian thinking about switching to mint Currently on Debian thinking about switching to mintu/Consistent_Pie6732•1 day agoCurrently on Debian thinking about switching to mintDiscussioncurrently on Debian 13 using XFCE. I was thinking of switching to mint Xfce or lmde because my wife and I like to have the same operating systems so we can switch computers easily when needed and she’s about to leave windows 10 finally.therefore I wanted something easier for her but still familiar for me.what version is best for us? I mostly play some games on steam and gog (older games) and retro emulation. I also do game development in C and Lua. my wife uses sheets, browser, d is learning Python and SQL. I’m looking for ease of use and basically little to no setup/maintenance needed after installationbesides The lack of dependence on Canonical, what does lmde have, if anything, over mint Xfce besides using cinnamon? Id probably prefer to stay on Xfce but wouldn’t mine switching if it meant some big gain.Thanks!EDIT: Long story short, wife and I decided on mint cinnamon. I gotta say, this is my first time messing with cinnamon and I am absolutely loving it. It avoids the overwhelming nature of KDE's menus and the barrenness of GNOME's.The built in expo and workspace switching animations feel REALLY nice too. That's something that I missed on XFCE that I was using Xfdashboard to mimic but it always felt tacked on and sort of off (because it was tacked on lol).The gestures are nice and responsive on my trackpad, system sounds for things like changing volume, workspace switching, all those little things, were things I didn't know I was missing from my GNOME days haha. Glad to have found this DE actually, I can see why it's so recommended!
How to delete this file? How to delete this file?u/old_raver_man3•23 hr. agoHow to delete this file?
Issues with shutting down and sleep Issues with shutting down and sleepu/No_Impact218•1 day agoIssues with shutting down and sleepSOLVEDMy computer has been having problems recently where sometimes it will freeze on the shutdown menu and I'll have to force shut it down or it will happen and eventually go to sleep (when I hit suspend) but it'll get stuck on a black screen after waking up
Does anybody know how to fix this? It only happens on the monitor. Does anybody know how to fix this? It only happens on the monitor.u/JustAwesome360•1 day agoDoes anybody know how to fix this? It only happens on the monitor.
Needing help on switching to linux through dual boot Needing help on switching to linux through dual bootu/BrokenSims•1 day agoNeeding help on switching to linux through dual bootInstall HelpI've been wanting to switch to linux for more than a year, but due to my fear to losing very important files on my pc, I just delayed it.Until 1 week ago that windows decided to randomly wipe itself because "It could log into my microsoft account" (It also fixed itself after almost 12 hours)Ever since that, I thought about dual booting both windows and linux mint, to transfer all my files to linux.I know there are better ways to do it, like purchasing pen to put all my files there, but due to lack of time, and other things, I have to use a 16 GB pen I found for the +300GB of files I need to transfer. (After deleting over 600GB of files that were backups of videos)What I planned to do was let windows have 440GB of space and give linux the empty space left, but knowing the trash can that is windows, I'm not sure if it'll break if it doesn't have its 900GB of space all for itself.Once all files are inside the linux partition, then I would only use it for programs that are still to be ported to linux, like adobe flash and others.By the way, is it possible to have 2 linux mints in the same pc? One for personal use and another for work?I kind of have experience installing linux, on a school pc, and it was very easy to my surprise.If anyone wants to give me advice or help, I would appreciate it a lot :D(Sorry if it's hard to understand, English isn't my first language.)
Simple Can Still Look Extra! (sources included) Simple Can Still Look Extra! (sources included)u/glitter_scout•2 days agoSimple Can Still Look Extra! (sources included)Desktop Screenshot
RTL8922AE 802.11be RTL8922AE 802.11beu/Mork006•7 hr. agoRTL8922AE 802.11beWifi IssuesSystem InfoOS: Linux Mint 22.2 Kernel: 6.17.0-14-genericMotherboard: ASUS TUF X870 Gaming Plus WifiWifi Network Controller: Realtek RTL8922AE 802.11be Kernel driver in use: rtw89_8922aeHello, built my desktop a month ago and installed linux mint 22.2 on it. I recently started encountering issues with wifi, specifically while streaming or during online meetings. I randomly get speed drops and ping spikes.Here's a dmesg dump where I grepped the driver name:[Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: <--- [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: SER catches error: 0x1000 [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: FW status = 0xdb001100 [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: FW BADADDR = 0x0 [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: FW EPC/RA = 0x0 [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: FW MISC = 0x31f0000 [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_AX_HALT_C2H = 0x1001 [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_AX_SER_DBG_INFO = 0xf2000000 [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2012593a [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2012593a [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x201325da [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db06 [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db0a [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db0a [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db10 [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2012593a [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2012593a [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2012593a [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x20009454 [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db0a [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db0e [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2012593a [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db06 [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: SER catches error: 0x1001 [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: FW status = 0xdb008100 [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: FW BADADDR = 0x0 [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: FW EPC/RA = 0x0 [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: FW MISC = 0xff0000 [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_AX_HALT_C2H = 0x1002 [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_AX_SER_DBG_INFO = 0xf2000000 [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db0a [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db10 [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db0a [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db0e [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db0e [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db0e [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db0a [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db0a [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db0a [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db0a [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db0a [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db0a [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db0a [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db0a [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db0a [Thu Feb 12 20:05:36 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: SER catches error: 0x1002 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: FW status = 0x75001100 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: FW BADADDR = 0x0 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: FW EPC/RA = 0x0 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: FW MISC = 0x1030000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_AX_HALT_C2H = 0x999 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_AX_SER_DBG_INFO = 0xf3000000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x20143ccc [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x20143ccc [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x20143ccc [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x20143ccc [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x20143ccc [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x20143ccc [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x20143ccc [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x20143ccc [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x20143ccc [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x20143ccc [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x20143ccc [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x20143ccc [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x20143ccc [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x20143ccc [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x20143ccc [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: SER catches error: 0x999 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: FW status = 0x75008000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: FW BADADDR = 0x0 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: FW EPC/RA = 0x0 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: FW MISC = 0x2070000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_AX_HALT_C2H = 0x1000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_AX_SER_DBG_INFO = 0xf3000000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db12 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2012593a [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2012593a [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x201314a6 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db0a [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db10 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db10 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2012593a [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x201314a6 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db0a [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db0a [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x20125938 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2012593a [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x201314a6 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db0a [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: ---> [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_SER_DBG_INFO=0xf3000000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_SER_L0_DBG_CNT=0x00000101 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_SER_L0_DBG_CNT1=0x00000000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_SER_L0_DBG_CNT2=0x00000000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_SER_L0_DBG_CNT3=0x00000000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_SER_L0_DBG_CNT_C1=0x00000000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_SER_L0_DBG_CNT1_C1=0x00000000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_SER_L1_DBG_CNT_0=0x00020000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_SER_L1_DBG_CNT_1=0x00010100 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_SER_L1_DBG_CNT_2=0x00000000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_SER_L1_DBG_CNT_3=0x00000000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_SER_L1_DBG_CNT_4=0x00000000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_SER_L1_DBG_CNT_5=0x00000000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_SER_L1_DBG_CNT_6=0x00000000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_SER_L1_DBG_CNT_7=0x000004c8 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_AX_DMAC_ERR_ISR=0x00000002 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_AX_DMAC_ERR_IMR=0x00000000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_AX_WDE_ERR_FLAG_CFG=0x00000000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_AX_PLE_ERR_FLAG_CFG=0x00000000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_SEC_ERROR_FLAG=0x00000001 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_SEC_ERROR_IMR=0x0000001f [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_SEC_ENG_CTRL=0x81001f3f [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_SEC_MPDU_PROC=0x0000001f [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_SEC_CAM_ACCESS=0x00000000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_SEC_CAM_RDATA=0x00000000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_SEC_DEBUG2=0x020418b0 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_CMAC_ERR_ISR [0]=0x00000000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_CMAC_FUNC_EN [0]=0xf00001ff [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_CK_EN [0]=0x4000ffff [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_CMAC_ERR_IMR [0]=0x00000000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_CMAC_ERR_ISR [1]=0x00000000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_CMAC_FUNC_EN [1]=0xf00001ff [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_CK_EN [1]=0x4000ffff [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_BE_CMAC_ERR_IMR [1]=0xffffffff [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: <--- [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: SER catches error: 0x1000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: FW status = 0x75008000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: FW BADADDR = 0x0 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: FW EPC/RA = 0x0 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: FW MISC = 0x31f0000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_AX_HALT_C2H = 0x1001 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_AX_SER_DBG_INFO = 0xf3000000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db0a [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db1a [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2012593a [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2012593a [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db0a [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db10 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db0e [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2012593a [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x201325da [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db0e [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db10 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x20125938 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2012593a [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x201325da [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2001db0a [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: SER catches error: 0x1001 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: FW status = 0x75008100 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: FW BADADDR = 0x0 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: FW EPC/RA = 0x0 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: FW MISC = 0xff0000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_AX_HALT_C2H = 0x1002 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: R_AX_SER_DBG_INFO = 0xf3000000 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x20008fde [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x20001bc8 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2010d800 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x20008fb2 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x20001bc8 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x20008fb2 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2000905c [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2012593a [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2002bace [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x20143f42 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2012593a [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x20143f08 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x2002c976 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x20152764 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: [ERR]fw PC = 0x20125924 [Thu Feb 12 20:07:58 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: SER catches error: 0x1002 [Thu Feb 12 20:14:54 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: timed out to flush queues [Thu Feb 12 20:14:54 2026] rtw89_8922ae 0000:09:00.0: timed out to flush queues
1st day on Mint 1st day on Mintu/niikoca•17 days ago1st day on MintDiscussion
New to mint New to mintu/Stvn77•1 day agoNew to mintHi, I had been  testing mint  on a  external disk on the past month ,  and couple of days ago  I just installed  it , I am using  dual boot,  the installation was a mess  I only have one  disk on my laptop (500gb), I got some errors  but I could get dual boot to work, I have some apps  on windows that I want to keep...also have some stability issues, looks like kernel 6.17 oem solved most of them , looks like  AMD Ryzen AI300 cpus is too new ...I still have some issues with  sleeping but those are more difficult to get (crashes on  wake up  or  during the night) I just need  Firefox on this laptop  for now... so thats it
Even us oldfolks do this. Even us oldfolks do this.u/Beautiful-Tension-24•26 days agoEven us oldfolks do this.
Help to recover corrupted files. Help to recover corrupted files.u/Baskier_31•1 day agoHelp to recover corrupted files.Support RequestI switched to Linux a couple of days ago, but I have a problem.The Word files I backed up became corrupted, specifically those with images.It's a shame this happened, since I put a lot of effort into some of them, and I don't want to redo them.Is this common? Does anyone have a method to recover the files?
Remote desktop for fold 6? Remote desktop for fold 6?u/smhtobeornottobe•7 hr. agoRemote desktop for fold 6?Hello all, is there any remote desktop available for Samsung fold 6, like we have for Windows. I have never used Linux before, also I tried looking it up on the subreddit but couldn't find anything.. Thank you in advance..
Using Clonezilla to move to a whole new system Using Clonezilla to move to a whole new systemu/OverfedRaccoon•1 day agoUsing Clonezilla to move to a whole new systemSOLVEDSo I recently got all the parts to build a new computer to replace this aging one. I see that Clonezilla can basically handle the migration and updates and everything to copy this install of Mint to the new drive, hopefully successfully. Which would be nice not to have to set everything back up from scratch.The drive I'm cloning is the SSD with the system install. I have two other HDDs (one with a Plex server set up, another with the Steam library, backups, etc). I don't plan on cloning those HDDs, butphysicallymoving them to the new computer.Is there anything I need to be aware of ahead of time? Drive locations potentially changing, things like that (that Clonezilla can't handle), that would be more of a headache than, say, just installing Mint again fresh and setting everything up from the jump?I tried googling, but it seems to just be under the impression I want to clone to multiple drives, or how to backup and clone all of the drives. Having trouble finding an answer to my specific scenario. Thanks in advance!
My Cinnamon Desktop My Cinnamon Desktopu/ntate_kenny•6 days agoMy Cinnamon DesktopDesktop Screenshot
Finally!! Finally!!u/Lucario_22•15 days agoFinally!!Desktop Screenshot
Safe to apply all the updates listed? Safe to apply all the updates listed?u/Dick_Best_969•7 hr. agoSafe to apply all the updates listed?Support RequestI upgraded my install recently from an old 19.x (IIRC) to the newest version (22.3), but 22.3 really didn't work well at all with my GeForce GT 720 graphics.After some research I learned that post-22.1 the kernel just didn't work so well with the Nvidia 470 drivers I need to be running. So I just installed 22.1 rather than 22.3.Everything is working splendidly, but there are currently 163 updates listed in update manager.I've applied the update for Firefox, but I'm worried that if I install the others it will update the kernel and mess things up.Is it safe to apply all of them, or are there some that I should always avoid if I don't want to change kernels (or whatever else I need to leave alone)?
Audeze maxwell popping sound only on linux mint and audio sounds worse than windows 10? Audeze maxwell popping sound only on linux mint and audio sounds worse than windows 10?u/UnhappyReindear•1 day agoAudeze maxwell popping sound only on linux mint and audio sounds worse than windows 10?DiscussionI got these headphones last year and while I prefer linux mint over windows 10, the audio is the only area where linux is worse than windows 10. Idk if this is specifically my headphones but the audio is just so clean on windows 10 + dobly atmos. Is there a way to get rid of this annoying popping sound that happens when i skip a segment of a youtube video or spotify music its very annoying . I use pulsewire if that helps.
Entering my 3rd year with Linux.  Still learning as I go.  Still no regrets. Entering my 3rd year with Linux.  Still learning as I go.  Still no regrets.u/UneventfulDaze•19 days agoEntering my 3rd year with Linux.  Still learning as I go.  Still no regrets.Desktop Screenshot
My Linux Mint setup My Linux Mint setupu/nezubn•7 days agoMy Linux Mint setupDesktop Screenshot
dpkg error (error code (1)) dpkg error (error code (1))u/luyseeee•1 day agodpkg error (error code (1))SOLVED
Minty Fresh Minty Freshu/LonelyMachines•5 days agoMinty FreshDesktop Screenshot
Should I try dual booting Linux Mint and Windows? Should I try dual booting Linux Mint and Windows?u/Limp_Investment_5774•1 day agoShould I try dual booting Linux Mint and Windows?Install HelpDual booting is the case just because I'm not sure about switching yet, but I'm curious abt Linux and I wanna get into programming, so I think of it like a base to maybe try less beginner-friendly distros in the future, if I try Mint now. I would guess that my laptop might not be best suited for it tho, so that's why I'm here. Specs are - AMD Ryzen 7 7435HS. 16 GB ram. 200 GB free storage(Can get to 300 np if more is needed for Linux.). AMD Radeon RX 7600S. I'm not good with in-depth computer stuff, so I'm gonna mention the only disk that shows up in my explorer is disk C, so it's like everythings in one place. I have Windows 11 Pro installed rn. Will they somehow clash together if I try installing Linux normally rn? Do I need to do some preparations like deviding my disk or smth lol? Making a backup is obvious, I'm gonna store some of the important stuff in a cloud, but I'm totally lost about everything else. I did read like two Installation instructions, but I'm not sure how it will apply to my case. Will Linux even run smoothly on my laptop? The way it was advertised was telling me loud and clear Windows 11 is supposed to be run on it, it's a pretty new laptop
Welcome Linux, goodbye Microslop! Welcome Linux, goodbye Microslop!u/bandrei94•13 days agoWelcome Linux, goodbye Microslop!Discussion
Is there any good reason for me to dual-boot? Is there any good reason for me to dual-boot?u/KB635•1 day agoIs there any good reason for me to dual-boot?SOLVEDEdit: thank you for the responses, it seems going straight to Linux is probably the right choice for me!Hello people.  I am a fed-up Windows 11 user who wants to switch to Linux, almost guaranteed to be/start with Mint.  I'm sick of my laptop slowing down suddenly, sick of the lack of control, sick of the bloatware which reinstalls itself every time I remove it.  Basically I want to have control over my operating system.  I've been interested in Linux for a while but only now am I deadly serious about moving over.As the title says, I want to know if there are any good reasons for me to keep Windows taking up a big chunk of my 456GB hard drive.  I don't use -- or at least, don't think I use -- anything Windows exclusive.  I have used LibreOffice for my writing and other needs for about a year now, due to a long-running fondness for FOSS and also just liking the apperance of the app.  I use MS Teams and Office for college -- both of which I can use in a web browser.  I don't play many games these days.  The only one I'm playing just now runs natively on Linux, as does one I plan on playing with my friend soon, when we've both got more time.  And yeah, that's really it.I am generally someone who makes big changes cold-turkey.  However I would like to know if there is anything critical I am missing.
Experience with Windows and Linux Mint Experience with Windows and Linux Mintu/Little_Protection434•5 days agoExperience with Windows and Linux MintLinux Mint IRLI bought a new laptop for my mother, and it came with Windows 11 as the operating system. Damn, I haven't used Windows in a while, but now I remember why I use Linux.During the installation of Windows, you are constantly asked to give up your privacy: Location? Device tracking? Diagnostic data? More diagnostic data related to inking and typing? Diagnostic data for personalized tips, ads, and recommendations to improve your Microsoft experience? Advertising ID, so apps can deliver personalized ads?Then you think, okay, now it's done... but no. Next page: Let's customize your experience. Select how you want to use your device so we can give you personalized tips, ads, and recommendations.Are we done yet? Well, with privacy... but we want to show you a few more ads and sell you a few things. Now free Game Pass for one month and then X amount per month. And even more things that I don't remember.Once I had Windows 11 installed, I immediately set up a dual boot with Linux Mint 22.2. That went much faster and I didn't have to give up any privacy. No commercials. No advertisements. No marketing and manipulation. Just an operating system that works. Lots of freedom. You can make the system your own and design it however you want. Completely free, just like all the programs you can install. Good quality. No errors or noise. All open source software, which is software whose source code is published and freely available to the public. This allows anyone to freely copy, study, modify, and redistribute it without copyright fees or surcharges. Open source code is developed through the joint collaboration of both individual programmers and large companies.My mother will only use Linux Mint. I left Windows 11 on it in case it's ever needed. So if you're unsure, give Linux Mint a try; most people never want to go back.
having wifi problems having wifi problemsu/EmbarrassedPeak2695•1 day agohaving wifi problemsWifi Issuesi just got a T440p and i put mint cinnamon on there but ive been having problems with the wifi. it says im connected but nothing loads, and it reading the wifi card so idk. i would really appreciate some help. if you have any ideas please comment them, or dm if you like.
Missing dismount icon on taskbar Missing dismount icon on taskbaru/Major303•2 days agoMissing dismount icon on taskbarSOLVEDWhen you connect external drive, an icon appears on the taskbar where you can safely dismount it. When you click on that with left mouse button small menu appears, and I have missclicked, and now the icon is gone. I do not know what I've clicked. Restaring the device does not bring it back. Is there a way to bring this back without reinstalling the OS? I know you can dismount in file manager too, but it's much less convenient method.
minecraft on linux minecraft on linuxu/Classic_Regret4342•7 hr. agominecraft on linuxSupport Requesthello. So i recently changed to linux mint using dualboot. Because of some audio software now when im trying to play minecraft and listen to spotify at the same timemy fps is way lower on win it was 1000-1500fps and on linux now it is 100-90fps and then the sound of spotify starts crackling no matter what audio device i use.I should have all drivers up to date
No Audio Macbook Pro - Loving all the rest. New life. Help, please. No Audio Macbook Pro - Loving all the rest. New life. Help, please.u/pondipat•8 hr. agoNo Audio Macbook Pro - Loving all the rest. New life. Help, please.Support RequestHello,First time linux mint user, all is working fine on my machine, except audio.Thank you for all the help, in advance.Edit: Wifi OK, bluetooth Ok, performance outstanding, my mac has a new life, but a mute life.~$ inxi -Fxxxzr System:   Kernel: 6.17.0-14-generic arch: x86_64 bits: 64 compiler: gcc v: 13.3.0     clocksource: tsc   Desktop: Cinnamon v: 6.6.7 tk: GTK v: 3.24.41 wm: Muffin v: 6.6.3 vt: 7     dm: LightDM v: 1.30.0 Distro: Linux Mint 22.3 Zena     base: Ubuntu 24.04 noble Machine:   Type: Laptop System: Apple product: MacBookPro14,1 v: 1.0     serial: <superuser required> Chassis: type: 9 v: Mac-B4831CEBD52A0C4C     serial: <superuser required>   Mobo: Apple model: Mac-B4831CEBD52A0C4C v: MacBookPro14,1     serial: <superuser required> uuid: <superuser required> UEFI: Apple     v: 529.140.2.0.0 date: 06/23/2024 Battery:   ID-1: BAT0 charge: 39.4 Wh (92.1%) condition: 42.8/54.6 Wh (78.4%)     volts: 13.0 min: 11.4 model: SMP bq20z451 type: Li-ion serial: N/A     status: charging cycles: 186 CPU:   Info: dual core model: Intel Core i5-7360U bits: 64 type: MT MCP     smt: enabled arch: Amber/Kaby Lake note: check rev: 9 cache: L1: 128 KiB     L2: 512 KiB L3: 4 MiB   Speed (MHz): avg: 2000 high: 3600 min/max: 400/3600 cores: 1: 400 2: 400     3: 3600 4: 3600 bogomips: 18399   Flags: avx avx2 ht lm nx pae sse sse2 sse3 sse4_1 sse4_2 ssse3 vmx Graphics:   Device-1: Intel Iris Plus Graphics 640 vendor: Apple driver: i915     v: kernel arch: Gen-9.5 ports: active: eDP-1 empty: DP-1, DP-2, HDMI-A-1,     HDMI-A-2 bus-ID: 00:02.0 chip-ID: 8086:5926 class-ID: 0300   Display: x11 server: X.Org v: 21.1.11 with: Xwayland v: 23.2.6 driver:     X: loaded: modesetting unloaded: fbdev,vesa dri: iris gpu: i915     display-ID: :0 screens: 1   Screen-1: 0 s-res: 2560x1600 s-dpi: 96 s-size: 677x423mm (26.65x16.65")     s-diag: 798mm (31.43")   Monitor-1: eDP-1 model: Apple Color LCD res: 2560x1600 hz: 60 dpi: 227     size: 286x179mm (11.26x7.05") diag: 337mm (13.3") modes: 2560x1600   API: EGL v: 1.5 hw: drv: intel iris platforms: device: 0 drv: iris     device: 1 drv: swrast gbm: drv: iris surfaceless: drv: iris x11: drv: iris     inactive: wayland   API: OpenGL v: 4.6 compat-v: 4.5 vendor: intel mesa     v: 25.2.8-0ubuntu0.24.04.1 glx-v: 1.4 direct-render: yes renderer: Mesa     Intel Iris Plus Graphics 640 (Kaby Lake GT3e) (KBL GT3)     device-ID: 8086:5926   API: Vulkan v: 1.3.275 layers: 3 surfaces: xcb,xlib device: 0     type: integrated-gpu driver: N/A device-ID: 8086:5926 device: 1 type: cpu     driver: N/A device-ID: 10005:0000 Audio:   Device-1: Intel Sunrise Point-LP HD Audio driver: snd_hda_intel v: kernel     bus-ID: 00:1f.3 chip-ID: 8086:9d71 class-ID: 0403   Device-2: Broadcom 720p FaceTime HD Camera driver: N/A pcie:     speed: 5 GT/s lanes: 1 bus-ID: 03:00.0 chip-ID: 14e4:1570 class-ID: 0480   API: ALSA v: k6.17.0-14-generic status: kernel-api   Server-1: PulseAudio v: 16.1 status: active Network:   Device-1: Broadcom BCM4350 802.11ac Wireless Network Adapter vendor: Apple     driver: brcmfmac v: kernel pcie: speed: 2.5 GT/s lanes: 1 bus-ID: 02:00.0     chip-ID: 14e4:43a3 class-ID: 0280   IF: wlp2s0 state: up mac: <filter> Drives:   Local Storage: total: 113 GiB used: 13.23 GiB (11.7%)   ID-1: /dev/nvme0n1 vendor: Apple model: SSD SM0128L size: 113 GiB     speed: 31.6 Gb/s lanes: 4 tech: SSD serial: <filter> fw-rev: CXS4JA0Q     temp: 31.9 C scheme: GPT Partition:   ID-1: / size: 110.17 GiB used: 13.22 GiB (12.0%) fs: ext4     dev: /dev/nvme0n1p2   ID-2: /boot/efi size: 510.9 MiB used: 6.1 MiB (1.2%) fs: vfat     dev: /dev/nvme0n1p1 Swap:   ID-1: swap-1 type: file size: 2 GiB used: 0 KiB (0.0%) priority: -2     file: /swapfile Sensors:   System Temperatures: cpu: 51.0 C mobo: N/A   Fan Speeds (rpm): N/A Repos:   Packages: pm: dpkg pkgs: 2009   No active apt repos in: /etc/apt/sources.list   Active apt repos in: /etc/apt/sources.list.d/official-package-repositories.list     1: deb https://ftp.rnl.tecnico.ulisboa.pt/pub/linuxmint-packages zena main upstream import backport     2: deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu noble main restricted universe multiverse     3: deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu noble-updates main restricted universe multiverse     4: deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu noble-backports main restricted universe multiverse     5: deb http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ noble-security main restricted universe multiverse Info:   Memory: total: 8 GiB available: 7.62 GiB used: 2.6 GiB (34.1%)   Processes: 240 Power: uptime: 7m states: freeze,mem,disk suspend: deep     wakeups: 0 hibernate: platform Init: systemd v: 255 target: graphical (5)     default: graphical   Compilers: gcc: 13.3.0 Shell: Bash v: 5.2.21 running-in: gnome-terminal     inxi: 3.3.34
Switching Distro's Switching Distro'su/Chrissomano•2 days agoSwitching Distro'sDiscussionHey everyone, after the latest update I've been getting the black screen thing after I login and after I fix it and all is done, I update mint and the problem comes back again but that's a my problem so no worries I've already figured it outWhat I want to know is that if there is an "app" that can backup my settings, data, already installed "apps" like chrome, steam etc (something like titanium backup for android) so that I can restore them after I installed a different distro and don't have to go through the whole process all over again with settings, passwords etcThanks for the help!P.S Im probably going with fedora kde or nobara (love it on my rog ally)
Kernel 6.17.0-14, Dell MC16250, Intel Wireless AX211 Kernel 6.17.0-14, Dell MC16250, Intel Wireless AX211u/TimeToRetire2030•2 days agoKernel 6.17.0-14, Dell MC16250, Intel Wireless AX211Support RequestApplied the new kernel last night, and like others, saw my wifi card disappear.  Thank goodness for Timeshift.Any ideas of a fix? For now I've blocked the kernel update.  Thanks!
Unable to play games on the 590 Nvidia driver Unable to play games on the 590 Nvidia driveru/KabuDesu•2 days agoUnable to play games on the 590 Nvidia driverSOLVEDHello. I've had absolutely no issues playing games on my PC with the 580 driver. However, whenever I try to install the 590 driver and play games on that, games will either hang or run at 1 FPS. Adding the -dx11 command line in Steam seems to help, but I can't manage to find a workaround for my Lutris games.Does anyone know why my PC is having issues with using the 590 driver? My system is running on a 3900x and 3080Ti.nvidia-smi:System:   Kernel: 6.17.0-14-generic arch: x86_64 bits: 64 compiler: gcc v: 13.3.0 clocksource: tsc   Desktop: Cinnamon v: 6.4.8 tk: GTK v: 3.24.41 wm: Muffin v: 6.4.1 with: plank vt: 7 dm: LightDM     v: 1.30.0 Distro: Linux Mint 22.2 Zara base: Ubuntu 24.04 noble Machine:   Type: Desktop Mobo: ASRock model: X570 Taichi serial: <superuser required>     uuid: <superuser required> UEFI: American Megatrends v: P3.00 date: 04/07/2020 CPU:   Info: 12-core model: AMD Ryzen 9 3900X bits: 64 type: MT MCP smt: enabled arch: Zen 2 rev: 0     cache: L1: 768 KiB L2: 6 MiB L3: 64 MiB   Speed (MHz): avg: 2332 high: 4345 min/max: 2200/4672 boost: enabled cores: 1: 2200 2: 2186     3: 2200 4: 2877 5: 2189 6: 2346 7: 2200 8: 2200 9: 2200 10: 2198 11: 2200 12: 2200 13: 2486     14: 2200 15: 2200 16: 2201 17: 2200 18: 2200 19: 2200 20: 2200 21: 2200 22: 4345 23: 2175     24: 2174 bogomips: 182397   Flags: avx avx2 ht lm nx pae sse sse2 sse3 sse4_1 sse4_2 sse4a ssse3 svm Graphics:   Device-1: NVIDIA GA102 [GeForce RTX 3080 Ti] vendor: Micro-Star MSI driver: nvidia v: 580.126.09     arch: Ampere pcie: speed: 5 GT/s lanes: 16 ports: active: none off: DP-1,DP-2     empty: DP-3,HDMI-A-1 bus-ID: 0d:00.0 chip-ID: 10de:2208 class-ID: 0300   Display: x11 server: X.Org v: 21.1.11 with: Xwayland v: 23.2.6 driver: X: loaded: nvidia     unloaded: fbdev,modesetting,nouveau,vesa gpu: nv_platform,nvidia,nvidia-nvswitch display-ID: :0     screens: 1   Screen-1: 0 s-res: 4480x1440 s-dpi: 90 s-size: 1264x402mm (49.76x15.83")     s-diag: 1326mm (52.22")   Monitor-1: DP-1 mapped: DP-0 note: disabled pos: primary,top-right model: Dell S2721DGF     serial: <filter> res: 2560x1440 dpi: 109 size: 597x336mm (23.5x13.23") diag: 685mm (27") modes:     max: 2560x1440 min: 640x480   Monitor-2: DP-2 note: disabled pos: bottom-l model: HP OMEN by 25 serial: <filter>     res: 1920x1080 hz: 60 dpi: 90 size: 543x302mm (21.38x11.89") diag: 621mm (24.5") modes:     max: 1920x1080 min: 640x480   API: EGL v: 1.5 hw: drv: nvidia platforms: device: 0 drv: nvidia device: 2 drv: swrast gbm:     drv: nvidia surfaceless: drv: nvidia x11: drv: nvidia inactive: wayland,device-1   API: OpenGL v: 4.6.0 compat-v: 4.5 vendor: nvidia mesa v: 580.126.09 glx-v: 1.4     direct-render: yes renderer: NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3080 Ti/PCIe/SSE2   API: Vulkan v: 1.3.275 layers: 10 surfaces: xcb,xlib device: 0 type: discrete-gpu driver: N/A     device-ID: 10de:2208 device: 1 type: cpu driver: N/A device-ID: 10005:0000 Audio:   Device-1: NVIDIA GA102 High Definition Audio vendor: Micro-Star MSI driver: snd_hda_intel     v: kernel pcie: speed: 16 GT/s lanes: 16 bus-ID: 0d:00.1 chip-ID: 10de:1aef class-ID: 0403   Device-2: AMD Starship/Matisse HD Audio vendor: ASRock driver: snd_hda_intel v: kernel pcie:     speed: 16 GT/s lanes: 16 bus-ID: 0f:00.4 chip-ID: 1022:1487 class-ID: 0403   Device-3: RODE Microphones NT-USB driver: hid-generic,snd-usb-audio,usbhid type: USB rev: 1.1     speed: 12 Mb/s lanes: 1 bus-ID: 3-5:3 chip-ID: 19f7:0003 class-ID: 0300   Device-4: Sunplus Onkyo GX-30ARC driver: hid-generic,snd-usb-audio,usbhid type: USB rev: 2.0     speed: 480 Mb/s lanes: 1 bus-ID: 5-3:11 chip-ID: 04fc:7402 class-ID: 0300 serial: <filter>   Device-5: SteelSeries ApS Arctis Pro Wireless driver: hid-generic,snd-usb-audio,usbhid     type: USB rev: 1.1 speed: 12 Mb/s lanes: 1 bus-ID: 5-4.3:9 chip-ID: 1038:1294 class-ID: 0300   API: ALSA v: k6.17.0-14-generic status: kernel-api   Server-1: PipeWire v: 1.0.5 status: active with: 1: pipewire-pulse status: active     2: wireplumber status: active 3: pipewire-alsa type: plugin Network:   Device-1: Intel Wi-Fi 6 AX200 driver: iwlwifi v: kernel pcie: speed: 5 GT/s lanes: 1     bus-ID: 06:00.0 chip-ID: 8086:2723 class-ID: 0280   IF: wlp6s0 state: down mac: <filter>   Device-2: Intel I211 Gigabit Network vendor: ASRock driver: igb v: kernel pcie: speed: 2.5 GT/s     lanes: 1 port: f000 bus-ID: 08:00.0 chip-ID: 8086:1539 class-ID: 0200   IF: enp8s0 state: up speed: 1000 Mbps duplex: full mac: <filter>   IF-ID-1: wg0-mullvad state: unknown speed: N/A duplex: N/A mac: N/A Bluetooth:   Device-1: Intel AX200 Bluetooth driver: btusb v: 0.8 type: USB rev: 2.0 speed: 12 Mb/s lanes: 1     bus-ID: 3-2:2 chip-ID: 8087:0029 class-ID: e001   Report: hciconfig ID: hci0 rfk-id: 0 state: down bt-service: enabled,running rfk-block:     hardware: no software: yes address: <filter> Drives:   Local Storage: total: 931.51 GiB used: 478.7 GiB (51.4%)   ID-1: /dev/nvme0n1 vendor: Sabrent model: Rocket 4.0 1TB size: 931.51 GiB speed: 63.2 Gb/s     lanes: 4 tech: SSD serial: <filter> fw-rev: RKT401.2 temp: 43.9 C scheme: GPT Partition:   ID-1: / size: 915.32 GiB used: 478.69 GiB (52.3%) fs: ext4 dev: /dev/nvme0n1p2   ID-2: /boot/efi size: 511 MiB used: 6.1 MiB (1.2%) fs: vfat dev: /dev/nvme0n1p1 Swap:   ID-1: swap-1 type: file size: 2 GiB used: 0 KiB (0.0%) priority: -2 file: /swapfile USB:   Hub-1: 1-0:1 info: hi-speed hub with single TT ports: 6 rev: 2.0 speed: 480 Mb/s lanes: 1     chip-ID: 1d6b:0002 class-ID: 0900   Hub-2: 1-2:2 info: Genesys Logic Hub ports: 4 rev: 2.0 speed: 480 Mb/s lanes: 1 power: 100mA     chip-ID: 05e3:0608 class-ID: 0900   Hub-3: 2-0:1 info: super-speed hub ports: 4 rev: 3.1 speed: 10 Gb/s lanes: 1 chip-ID: 1d6b:0003     class-ID: 0900   Hub-4: 3-0:1 info: hi-speed hub with single TT ports: 6 rev: 2.0 speed: 480 Mb/s lanes: 1     chip-ID: 1d6b:0002 class-ID: 0900   Device-1: 3-2:2 info: Intel AX200 Bluetooth type: bluetooth driver: btusb interfaces: 2     rev: 2.0 speed: 12 Mb/s lanes: 1 power: 100mA chip-ID: 8087:0029 class-ID: e001   Device-2: 3-5:3 info: RODE Microphones NT-USB type: audio,HID     driver: hid-generic,snd-usb-audio,usbhid interfaces: 4 rev: 1.1 speed: 12 Mb/s lanes: 1     power: 100mA chip-ID: 19f7:0003 class-ID: 0300   Hub-5: 4-0:1 info: super-speed hub ports: 4 rev: 3.1 speed: 10 Gb/s lanes: 1 chip-ID: 1d6b:0003     class-ID: 0900   Hub-6: 5-0:1 info: hi-speed hub with single TT ports: 4 rev: 2.0 speed: 480 Mb/s lanes: 1     chip-ID: 1d6b:0002 class-ID: 0900   Hub-7: 5-1:2 info: Genesys Logic Hub ports: 2 rev: 2.1 speed: 12 Mb/s lanes: 1     chip-ID: 05e3:0610 class-ID: 0900   Device-1: 5-1.1:4 info: Razer USA Gaming Mouse [Basilisk Ultimate Wireless Receiver]     type: mouse,keyboard driver: razermouse,usbhid interfaces: 3 rev: 2.0 speed: 12 Mb/s lanes: 1     power: 500mA chip-ID: 1532:0088 class-ID: 0300   Device-2: 5-1.2:6 info: Razer USA RC30-030502 Mouse Dock type: mouse,keyboard     driver: razeraccessory,usbhid interfaces: 3 rev: 2.0 speed: 12 Mb/s lanes: 1 power: 500mA     chip-ID: 1532:007e class-ID: 0300   Device-3: 5-2:3 info: ARCHISS M98US type: keyboard,HID driver: hid-generic,usbhid interfaces: 4     rev: 2.0 speed: 12 Mb/s lanes: 1 power: 100mA chip-ID: 2be8:0009 class-ID: 0300   Device-4: 5-3:11 info: Sunplus Onkyo GX-30ARC type: audio,HID     driver: hid-generic,snd-usb-audio,usbhid interfaces: 3 rev: 2.0 speed: 480 Mb/s lanes: 1     power: 44mA chip-ID: 04fc:7402 class-ID: 0300 serial: <filter>   Hub-8: 5-4:5 info: Texas Instruments TUSB2036 Hub ports: 3 rev: 1.1 speed: 12 Mb/s lanes: 1     chip-ID: 0451:2036 class-ID: 0900   Device-1: 5-4.2:7 info: SteelSeries ApS Arctis Pro Wireless type: HID     driver: hid-generic,usbhid interfaces: 2 rev: 2.0 speed: 12 Mb/s lanes: 1 power: 500mA     chip-ID: 1038:1290 class-ID: 0300   Device-2: 5-4.3:9 info: SteelSeries ApS Arctis Pro Wireless type: audio,HID     driver: hid-generic,snd-usb-audio,usbhid interfaces: 6 rev: 1.1 speed: 12 Mb/s lanes: 1     power: 100mA chip-ID: 1038:1294 class-ID: 0300   Hub-9: 6-0:1 info: super-speed hub ports: 4 rev: 3.1 speed: 10 Gb/s lanes: 1 chip-ID: 1d6b:0003     class-ID: 0900 Sensors:   System Temperatures: cpu: 37.5 C mobo: 40.0 C gpu: nvidia temp: 35 C   Fan Speeds (rpm): fan-1: 0 fan-2: 1212 fan-3: 0 fan-4: 0 fan-5: 2556 fan-6: 3668 fan-7: 0     gpu: nvidia fan: 0% Repos:   Packages: 2642 pm: dpkg pkgs: 2608 pm: flatpak pkgs: 34   No active apt repos in: /etc/apt/sources.list   Active apt repos in: /etc/apt/sources.list.d/graphics-drivers-ppa-noble.list     1: deb [signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/graphics-drivers-ppa-noble.gpg] https: //ppa.launchpadcontent.net/graphics-drivers/ppa/ubuntu noble main   Active apt repos in: /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mullvad.list     1: deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/mullvad-keyring.asc arch=amd64] https: //repository.mullvad.net/deb/stable stable main   Active apt repos in: /etc/apt/sources.list.d/official-package-repositories.list     1: deb http: //packages.linuxmint.com zara main upstream import backport     2: deb http: //archive.linux.duke.edu/ubuntu noble main restricted universe multiverse     3: deb http: //archive.linux.duke.edu/ubuntu noble-updates main restricted universe multiverse     4: deb http: //archive.linux.duke.edu/ubuntu noble-backports main restricted universe multiverse     5: deb http: //security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ noble-security main restricted universe multiverse   Active apt repos in: /etc/apt/sources.list.d/openrazer-stable-noble.list     1: deb [signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/openrazer-stable-noble.gpg] https: //ppa.launchpadcontent.net/openrazer/stable/ubuntu noble main   Active apt repos in: /etc/apt/sources.list.d/steam.list     1: deb [arch=amd64 signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/steam.gpg] http: //repo.steampowered.com/steam/ stable steam   Active apt repos in: /etc/apt/sources.list.d/signal-desktop.sources     1: deb [arch=amd64] https: //updates.signal.org/desktop/apt xenial main Info:   Memory: total: 32 GiB available: 31.27 GiB used: 5.82 GiB (18.6%)   Processes: 531 Power: uptime: 1h 8m states: freeze,mem,disk suspend: deep wakeups: 0     hibernate: platform Init: systemd v: 255 target: graphical (5) default: graphical   Compilers: gcc: 13.3.0 alt: 9 Client: Cinnamon v: 6.4.8 inxi: 3.3.34
Cinnamon is NOT Outdated! Cinnamon is NOT Outdated!u/SuggestionBusy241•1 mo. agoCinnamon is NOT Outdated!Discussion
Where is camera/webcam in linux mint?🙂 Where is camera/webcam in linux mint?🙂u/Usual-Sheepherder-28•26 days agoWhere is camera/webcam in linux mint?🙂
One of the hardest parts of switching to linux for me was losing task manager but turns out it has that too One of the hardest parts of switching to linux for me was losing task manager but turns out it has that toou/299jace•10 days agoOne of the hardest parts of switching to linux for me was losing task manager but turns out it has that tooGuide
linux won't shut down or suspend via gui linux won't shut down or suspend via guiu/demot-32•2 days agolinux won't shut down or suspend via guiSupport RequestI noticed the issue yday and replicated it twice - when I shutdown via start menu gui the first time the menu appears with the shut down, restart, suspend buttons and once I click on shutdown the menu closes and nothing happens. after this, clicking on the shutdown button in the start menu again does nothing (no gui, nothing) and the only way to shut down seems to be by holding the power key - anyone encounter anything similar before?laptopi9-14900HXRTX 4070 Max-Q16GB rammint 22.3
Rate my desktop Rate my desktopu/scap3sh4rk•2 days agoRate my desktopDesktop Screenshot
Help with keyrings Help with keyringsu/Allrounder67•9 hr. agoHelp with keyringsSupport RequestI tried to get rid of an annoying message at start up, asking for passcode for standardkeyring after having changed the login password. Looked at forums and read, that I could just change the code to the new login or just delete it.Tried that, but got cold feet and made a new standardkeyring with same password as login.But now, I can't connect to my mail and calendar accounts in Evolution (see screenshot). How to fix that?Besides that, my Password and Keys manager seems to be Seahorse, I believe I have read, that's an old/outdated manager?System:   Kernel: 6.17.0-14-generic arch: x86_64 bits: 64 compiler: gcc v: 13.3.0 clocksource: tsc   Desktop: Cinnamon v: 6.6.7 tk: GTK v: 3.24.41 wm: Muffin v: 6.6.3 vt: 7 dm: LightDM v: 1.30.0     Distro: Linux Mint 22.3 Zena base: Ubuntu 24.04 noble Machine:   Type: Laptop System: LENOVO product: 20QD003KMX v: ThinkPad X1 Carbon 7th     serial: <superuser required> Chassis: type: 10 serial: <superuser required>   Mobo: LENOVO model: 20QD003KMX v: SDK0J40697 WIN serial: <superuser required>     part-nu: LENOVO_MT_20QD_BU_Think_FM_ThinkPad X1 Carbon 7th uuid: <superuser required>     UEFI: LENOVO v: N2HET84W (1.67 ) date: 11/11/2025
Is there a way to rebind the middle click to some other button in my mouse? Is there a way to rebind the middle click to some other button in my mouse?u/guilhermej14•9 hr. agoIs there a way to rebind the middle click to some other button in my mouse?SOLVEDBasically title, I'm doing something here that requires me to copy and paste text from the browser to a wine/proton cmd (specifically a wine cmd not regular terminal), and apparently the only way to do it is by highlighting the text from the browser without doing anything else, then tabbing to your cmd and middle clicking it to paste.There's just one problem tho, the middle-click in my mouse is not working. Wheel scrolling works just fine, but clicking does nothing, neither on the cmd nor in my browser or anything else.So I was thinking if there was any way to completely rebind the middle click to some of my other mouse buttons, since my mouse has like 5 buttons.Any suggestions?
Goodbye Windows 11, Hello Linux Mint! Goodbye Windows 11, Hello Linux Mint!u/alfrednichol•5 days agoGoodbye Windows 11, Hello Linux Mint!Desktop Screenshot
I bought a new PC on a whim, decided it's time to officially switch, and am I glad I did. I forgot how fun computing could be. I bought a new PC on a whim, decided it's time to officially switch, and am I glad I did. I forgot how fun computing could be.u/GlamStache•1 mo. agoI bought a new PC on a whim, decided it's time to officially switch, and am I glad I did. I forgot how fun computing could be.Desktop Screenshot
New PC build, after clearing cmos and bios update Mint finally installed New PC build, after clearing cmos and bios update Mint finally installedu/NickTaylorIV•2 days agoNew PC build, after clearing cmos and bios update Mint finally installedDiscussionIt took 3 tries for the MSI Tomahawk to "receive" the damn Bios update. Newsflash, it doesn't seem to like PNY thumb drives. Done the same Bios download/extract to a MicroCenter thumb and it worked. . .  When it get it all put together and to the house (3 monitor setup) I'll see if Nvidia is going to throw me a curveball but it's working right out the box for now as you see. Waiting to get home to download and install all of the stuff I got to put in here. Internet at the shop is SLOW! (takes 5+ minutes to upload a YT short to my channel) but the AT&T Fiber at the house is very fast.
A sudden shutdown despite battery still being almost full 98% A sudden shutdown despite battery still being almost full 98%u/yflavus•2 days agoA sudden shutdown despite battery still being almost full 98%Support RequestHello All,I'm running Linux Mint ( you can see the system info below ) and experiencing a strange issue: when I unplug my laptop, it shuts down suddenly at around 63% battery. Now, this was a week ago, and it gradually gotten up to 74% and then to 98% today. When I try to turn it on, it turns on and after a few seconds turns off again.This doesn't happen when plugged in, even when I am gaming and browsing underneath, it started happening a week ago like I said. The battery health seems okay, and bear in mind that my laptop is 6 years old and this the battery that I bought and replaced with the original battery 2 years ago. Has anyone else had this? Any suggestions for troubleshooting or fixes?I think it is a hardware issue but just want to double check with everyone. By the way, I have no error log after a sudden shutdown.OS: Linux Mint 22.3 - Cinnamon 64-bitLinux Kernel: 6.8.0-94-genericProcessor: Intel© Core™ i5-9300H CPU @ 2.40GHz × 4Graphics Card: NVIDIA Corporation TU117M [GeForce GTX 1650 Mobile / Max-Q]Memory: 16GBHarddrive:1.5TBDisplay Server: x11BIOS:Brand: AMIVersion: FX505GT.310Release: 5.13Other relevant information:The battery model: Simplo SDI ICR18650native-path: BAT0vendor: Simplomodel: SDI ICR18650serial: 123456789power supply: yesupdated: Fri 06 Feb 2026 18:45:27 ASThas history: yeshas statistics: yesbattery present: yesrechargeable: yesstate: fully-chargedwarning-level: noneenergy: 28.7508 Whenergy-empty: 0 Whenergy-full: 29.2182 Whenergy-full-design: 44.46 Whenergy-rate: 0 Wvoltage: 12.641 Vcharge-cycles: 39percentage: 98%capacity: 65.7179%technology: lithium-ionicon-name: 'battery-full-charged-symbolic'
Asks for Admin Passwork 3 Times Asks for Admin Passwork 3 Timesu/xtoxicxk23•2 days agoAsks for Admin Passwork 3 TimesAny time I try to open a system settings window that requires the admin password to be entered, it makes me enter it three times before it accepts it. It is the correct password every time and always works on the 3rd time. Anyone deal with this before?
From windows 10 to Ubuntu to Linux Mint now, so happy From windows 10 to Ubuntu to Linux Mint now, so happyu/Acceptable-Age-3230•11 days agoFrom windows 10 to Ubuntu to Linux Mint now, so happy
Can anyone help? Can anyone help?u/Comfortable_Ratio252•9 hr. agoCan anyone help?
Mint is simple and elegant Mint is simple and elegantu/Muted-Savings-9619•20 days agoMint is simple and elegantDesktop Screenshot
I made a Linux Mint shirt design I made a Linux Mint shirt designu/EnteEnteLos•19 days agoI made a Linux Mint shirt designLinux Mint IRL
New Cinnamon Theme: Soul-Light & Soul-Dark New Cinnamon Theme: Soul-Light & Soul-Darku/anaximeno•3 days agoNew Cinnamon Theme: Soul-Light & Soul-Dark#LinuxMintThings
We just gained a new Linux Mint user 🎉 We just gained a new Linux Mint user 🎉u/ShadowByte07•2 days agoWe just gained a new Linux Mint user 🎉HELL YEAHr/FuckMicrosoft•2 days agoHELL YEAH357upvotes·24comments
Installed Linux Mint on my old MacBook Air from 2017, any advice or important things to do? Installed Linux Mint on my old MacBook Air from 2017, any advice or important things to do?u/abg67•2 days agoInstalled Linux Mint on my old MacBook Air from 2017, any advice or important things to do?
Nvidia and secure boot Nvidia and secure bootu/Weebounet•2 days agoNvidia and secure bootSupport RequestHello, I had to turn secure boot off in order to make my rtx5070ti work. I feel unsafe now. This is a new build and it's my first time with linux ( just try it a few day on my old hardware ). Is there a way to mke it work with secure boot on ? I' ve read about MOk with Mistral AI but can't trust it 100 % . Please explain to me. Thanks.
Frankensteined a decent computer thanks to Mint plus a question Frankensteined a decent computer thanks to Mint plus a questionu/Cpt_Dan_Argh•5 days agoFrankensteined a decent computer thanks to Mint plus a questionLinux Mint IRL
I'm free!!! I'm free!!!u/unknowableledgend•10 days agoI'm free!!!Desktop Screenshot
Steam is not responding Steam is not respondingu/Timely_Assistant_618•3 days agoSteam is not respondingSupport RequestNewbie here. So I installed steam, the login worked and then minimised to the taskbar, and from there, it’s doing nothing except from closing the program. No idea what to do.
Why does it always break everything when i do updates. Can't fix audio... Why does it always break everything when i do updates. Can't fix audio...u/foreshadow•9 hr. agoWhy does it always break everything when i do updates. Can't fix audio...I did an update, it reset to Ethernet drivers that I blacklisted, audio is not working anymore.I was able to get Network card drivers working again. Audio is not working when doing what i did before the previous updates using pavucontrol to select 5.1 to my audio speakers.Everything looks like its working but nothing is coming out the speakers.
Media players not recognizing certain songs. Media players not recognizing certain songs.u/theguyovathere•3 days agoMedia players not recognizing certain songs.Support RequestI downloaded a bunch of music in FLAC format. The folder was giant so I used an automated bash script to convert all of them to OGG vorbis with ffmpeg. The music is seemingly fine with metadata and all but media players refuse to add them to my library for whatever reason. And when I say media players, I mean all of them. They can play the song, but refuse to add it in my music library.ogginfo gives normal results, I've tried rescanning my library, checking permissions, all fine. I've tried moving my entire library and yet all the converted songs are ignored. I'm at a loss.
Mi Linux Mint xfce Mi Linux Mint xfceu/parrol61•6 days agoMi Linux Mint xfce
And now I can say that I am one of you And now I can say that I am one of youu/MrDourado•27 days agoAnd now I can say that I am one of youDesktop Screenshot
Please enjoy this wallpaper I found Please enjoy this wallpaper I foundu/Hexatona•12 days agoPlease enjoy this wallpaper I foundFluff
The one failing of my Linux Mint computers, and my solution. The one failing of my Linux Mint computers, and my solution.u/SPedigrees•28 days agoThe one failing of my Linux Mint computers, and my solution.
Constant GPU usage? Constant GPU usage?u/wanderduene02•3 days agoConstant GPU usage?SOLVED
Finally decided to switch to Linux, Mint can be so elegant! Finally decided to switch to Linux, Mint can be so elegant!u/MikeTarget•17 days agoFinally decided to switch to Linux, Mint can be so elegant!Desktop Screenshot
Lots of video streaming problems since "conversion" Lots of video streaming problems since "conversion"u/Overall-Book-6029•9 hr. agoLots of video streaming problems since "conversion"DiscussionWas on Windows 11. Have an nvme boot drive and 2 SSD and 2 hdd for data. I also have identical backup disks for those 4.I abandoned Microsoft and converted data disks to EXT4. Large part of data is video files. I stream with Jellyfin. Had no problems with Windows. Now often have playback problems. Mint Cinnamon seems lack encoders for some formats and I have to climb in with HandbrakeAny ideas, suggestions, knowledge out there?Do you need any hardware specs?
Where are logs saved? (Faugus Launcher) / Launch games without Steam Where are logs saved? (Faugus Launcher) / Launch games without Steamu/Atomicboy123•3 days agoWhere are logs saved? (Faugus Launcher) / Launch games without SteamSupport RequestHi everyone, I hope you're doing well.I want to install the Battle net launcher via the Faugus Launcher but it doesn't work and just gives a message "Battle net was not installed!". I decided to enable logging. Some logging is being done, as the option to clear logs (in the Faugus Launcher) now shows 9.4KB of files.I just can't figure out where the logs are saved...Asides from that, I can't launch any game via launchers like Faugus, Heroic, Lutris etc.The only thing that works for me is Steam.Thanks!
No more windows 11 No more windows 11u/pizzalord686•13 days agoNo more windows 11Discussion
It is MY year of the Linux Desktop It is MY year of the Linux Desktopu/RetroSnoe•1 mo. agoIt is MY year of the Linux DesktopDesktop Screenshot
Tor Browser does not start on LM 22.3 Tor Browser does not start on LM 22.3u/IceS-2026•3 days agoTor Browser does not start on LM 22.3As in the title. Since yesterday, everything was working. Before shutting down the pc, I updated various things (I don't remember what and don't know how to discover what was recently updated) through the software manager. Today, although the TB icon is in the task bar, TB does not start at all. I tried uninstalling and reinstalling it, but still nothing.Any suggestion?Thank you!
Been looking for a fitting gamepad.. Been looking for a fitting gamepad..u/HarlekinJack•27 days agoBeen looking for a fitting gamepad..Fluff
Here's my dark windows 7 themed desktop Here's my dark windows 7 themed desktopu/v2na_•11 days agoHere's my dark windows 7 themed desktopDesktop Screenshot
How much worry do you put into the "unverified flatpak" checkmark for the Signal app on Linux Mint? How much worry do you put into the "unverified flatpak" checkmark for the Signal app on Linux Mint?u/SjalabaisWoWS•5 days agoHow much worry do you put into the "unverified flatpak" checkmark for the Signal app on Linux Mint?Discussion
Any way to combine the 'Window Selection Screen' (ctrl+alt+↓) and 'Workspace Selection Screen' (Super+Tab)? Any way to combine the 'Window Selection Screen' (ctrl+alt+↓) and 'Workspace Selection Screen' (Super+Tab)?u/Echojhawke•4 days agoAny way to combine the 'Window Selection Screen' (ctrl+alt+↓) and 'Workspace Selection Screen' (Super+Tab)?Support RequestLoving Mint, have most everything dialed in, just trying to get one last thing ironed out. I'd love to be able to have the Window and Workspace selection screens combined so when I press Super+Tab I can select either workspaces or windows and drag and drop windows between them. (Similar to how Windows does it (I know I know, trying to get things like windows.))TIA!System: Kernel: 6.14.0-37-generic arch: x86_64 bits: 64 compiler: gcc v: 13.3.0 clocksource: tscDesktop: Cinnamon v: 6.4.8 tk: GTK v: 3.24.41 wm: Muffin v: 6.4.1 vt: 7 dm: LightDM v: 1.30.0Distro: Linux Mint 22.2 Zara base: Ubuntu 24.04 nobleMachine: Type: Desktop System: Gigabyte product: Z790 EAGLE AXCPU: Core i7-14700KSpeed (MHz): avg: 1053 high: 1518 min/max: 800/5500:5600:4300 cores: 1: 1099 2: 1099 3: 11004: 800 5: 1100 6: 800 7: 1028 8: 1100 9: 1100 10: 1099 11: 1099 12: 1100 13: 1100 14: 80015: 1100 16: 1518 17: 1100 18: 1100 19: 1100 20: 1121 21: 1100 22: 1244 23: 1100 24: 80025: 800 26: 800 27: 1100 28: 1099 bogomips: 191385Flags: avx avx2 ht lm nx pae sse sse2 sse3 sse4_1 sse4_2 ssse3 vmxGraphics: Device-1: Intel Raptor Lake-S GT1 [UHD Graphics 770] vendor: Gigabyte driver: i915 v: kernelarch: Gen-13 ports: active: HDMI-A-1,HDMI-A-2 empty: DP-1 bus-ID: 00:02.0 chip-ID: 8086:a780class-ID: 0380Device-2: NVIDIA TU104 [GeForce RTX 2070 SUPER] vendor: Micro-Star MSI driver: nvidiav: 580.95.05 arch: Turing pcie: speed: 8 GT/s lanes: 16 ports: active: none off: DP-2, DP-3,DP-4, HDMI-A-3 empty: none bus-ID: 01:00.0 chip-ID: 10de:1e84 class-ID: 0300Display: x11 server:X.Orgv: 21.1.11 with: Xwayland v: 23.2.6 driver: X:loaded: modesetting,nvidia unloaded: fbdev,nouveau,vesa dri: irisgpu: i915,nv_platform,nvidia,nvidia-nvswitch display-ID: :0 screens: 1Screen-1: 0 s-res: 5760x2160 s-dpi: 96 s-size: 1524x572mm (60.00x22.52")s-diag: 1628mm (64.09")Monitor-1: DP-2 mapped: DP-1 note: disabled pos: bottom-r model: Sceptre J20 res: 1600x900hz: 60 dpi: 93 size: 435x237mm (17.13x9.33") diag: 496mm (19.5") modes: max: 1600x900min: 640x480Monitor-2: DP-3 note: disabled pos: primary,top-center model: VZ249 serial: <filter>res: 1920x1080 hz: 60 dpi: 93 size: 527x296mm (20.75x11.65") diag: 604mm (23.8") modes:max: 1920x1080 min: 640x480Monitor-3: not-matched mapped: DP-5 pos: bottom-c res: 1920x1080 hz: 60 dpi: 93size: 527x296mm (20.75x11.65") diag: 604mm (23.8") modes: N/AMonitor-4: HDMI-A-1 mapped: HDMI-0 pos: bottom-l model: VZ249 serial: <filter> res: 1920x1080hz: 60 dpi: 93 size: 527x296mm (20.75x11.65") diag: 604mm (23.8") modes: max: 1920x1080min: 720x400Monitor-5: HDMI-A-1 mapped: HDMI-1-1 pos: top-right model: VZ249 serial: <filter>res: 1920x1080 hz: 60 dpi: 93 size: 527x296mm (20.75x11.65") diag: 604mm (23.8") modes:max: 1920x1080 min: 720x400Monitor-6: HDMI-A-2 mapped: HDMI-1-2 pos: top-left model: VZ249 serial: <filter> res: 1920x1080hz: 60 dpi: 93 size: 527x296mm (20.75x11.65") diag: 604mm (23.8") modes: max: 1920x1080min: 720x400API: EGL v: 1.5 hw: drv: intel iris drv: nvidia nouveau drv: nvidia platforms: device: 0drv: nvidia device: 1 drv: nouveau device: 2 drv: iris device: 3 drv: swrast gbm: drv: nvidiasurfaceless: drv: nvidia x11: drv: nvidia inactive: waylandAPI: OpenGL v: 4.6.0 compat-v: 4.5 vendor: nvidia mesa v: 580.95.05 glx-v: 1.4direct-render: yes renderer: NVIDIA GeForce RTX 2070 SUPER/PCIe/SSE2Repos:Packages: 2606 pm: dpkg pkgs: 2584 pm: flatpak pkgs: 22No active apt repos in: /etc/apt/sources.listActive apt repos in: /etc/apt/sources.list.d/firefoxpwa.list1: deb [signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/firefoxpwa.gpg] https://packagecloud.io/filips/FirefoxPWA/anyany mainActive apt repos in: /etc/apt/sources.list.d/official-package-repositories.list1: deb http://packages.linuxmint.comzara main upstream import backport2: deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntunoble main restricted universe multiverse3: deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntunoble-updates main restricted universe multiverse4: deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntunoble-backports main restricted universe multiverse5: deb http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/noble-security main restricted universe multiverseActive apt repos in: /etc/apt/sources.list.d/slack.list1: deb https://packagecloud.io/slacktechnologies/slack/debian/jessie mainActive apt repos in: /etc/apt/sources.list.d/termius.list1: deb [arch=amd64 signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/termius-2023.gpg,/usr/share/keyrings/termius-2026.gpg] https://deb.termius.comsqueeze mainActive apt repos in: /etc/apt/sources.list.d/brave-browser-release.sources1: deb [arch=amd64 arm64] https://brave-browser-apt-release.s3.brave.comstable mainActive apt repos in: /etc/apt/sources.list.d/signal-desktop.sources1: deb [arch=amd64] https://updates.signal.org/desktop/aptxenial mainActive apt repos in: /etc/apt/sources.list.d/vscode.sources1: deb [arch=amd64] https://packages.microsoft.com/repos/codestable mainInfo:Memory: total: 64 GiB note: est. available: 62.56 GiB used: 15.59 GiB (24.9%)Processes: 606 Power: uptime: 11d 23h 48m states: freeze,mem,disk suspend: deep wakeups: 7hibernate: platform Init: systemd v: 255 target: graphical (5) default: graphical
Recent convert to Linux Mint! Why would anyone want any other daily driver? Recent convert to Linux Mint! Why would anyone want any other daily driver?u/laugh3r•12 days agoRecent convert to Linux Mint! Why would anyone want any other daily driver?Desktop Screenshot
LMDE won't recognize media keys by hp pavilion dv6 remote LMDE won't recognize media keys by hp pavilion dv6 remoteu/BL4CKPL4T3•10 hr. agoLMDE won't recognize media keys by hp pavilion dv6 remoteSupport RequestI got a bit of a weird problem. A few months ago, I pulled a HP Pavilion dv6 - 1199eg out of the trash, after making sure that it still turned on, by cobbling together an improvised charger, I decided to make it a dedicated media laptop. This model is uniquely suited for the roll, as it is equipped with a touch bar that has a few media keys, as well as an integrated media remote with even more keys. After buying a a proper charger online and unplugging the keyboard (one of the keys is stuck, which stops it from booting) I went and installed LMDE on it. So far it works great, except for the remote.The problem is, although all the buttons work, which I confirmed via evtest, trying to assign some of them to a shortcut in the system settings doesn't work.The keys are from left to right and top to bottom:KEY_SLEEPKEY_DVDKEY_BRIGHTNESSDOWN KEY_PLAYPAUSE KEY_MEDIAKEY_CHANNELUPKEY_STOP KEY_REWIND KEY_PLAYPAUSE KEY_FASTFORWARDKEY_CHANNELDOWNKEY_PREVIOUSKEY_UPKEY_NEXTKEY_LEFT KEY_OK KEY_RIGHTKEY_EXIT KEY_DOWNKEY_INFOKEY_VOLUMEDOWN KEY_MUTE KEY_VOLUMEUPI've formated the keys that aren't recognized by the system but give a evtest event as cursive. The keys KEY_REWIND and KEY_FASTFORWARD are recognized by the system, however they do not work as hotkeys/gobal in VLC which kinda sucks.Does anyone have experience with this kind of problem?
Error Popup During Daily Updates. Error Popup During Daily Updates.u/69LoveSixtyNine69•4 days agoError Popup During Daily Updates.Support RequestHello beautiful people! I'm using my work laptop with linux cinammon kernel 6.14.0-37-generic.In the past few days I was trying to set up virtual box to try out bazzite for possible future use on my main desktop pc and I think that's the cause of my getting this error. Weird thing though, is that when I press refresh to re-download the patches, I get the "You're up to date" message on screen.Does anybody know how to fix this, if it is not a bug?
Using Mint for a month and it's wonderful Using Mint for a month and it's wonderfulu/khvissst•10 days agoUsing Mint for a month and it's wonderfulDesktop Screenshot
Linux Mint slower when moving SSD from one PC to another one? Linux Mint slower when moving SSD from one PC to another one?u/Novel_Question7122•3 days agoLinux Mint slower when moving SSD from one PC to another one?Support RequestHey y'all. I recently decided to upgrade my parents' PC for them as well as upgrade their SSD from a 512GB to a 2TB one. I ended up cloning the desktop from the 512 to the 2tb with Rescuezilla which worked well.I plugged the drive into the upgrade PC and everything feels surprisingly worse now. it is a definite hardware upgrade, from a 2014 Inspiron to a decent 2019 Optiplex, but everything just feels kind of "sticky" for lack of a better word. It all just feels a little worse now.Anyone else had a similar issue when moving a Mint install to a different PC? Would appreciate any advice or wisdom if you have any :)
Laptop on Linux mint won't charge with usbc when battery is empty Laptop on Linux mint won't charge with usbc when battery is emptyu/lujo1925•3 days agoLaptop on Linux mint won't charge with usbc when battery is emptySOLVEDSo i just wanted to start my hp envy x360 from 2019 and it wouldn't start so i figured it might be bcs it's battery was empty. Then i wanted to charge it via usb type c (65 watts just like the original) and it wouldn't start either even when i unplugged anything else. Then i remembered that sometimes there are issues with hp laptops not charging via usbc sometimes and used the original charger. My laptop now turns on again but do u guys know if it's a problem under linux or really an hp problem? I am asking bcs i originally bought the 65w charger block so i could carry around only this one for all my devices and not have to untangle the original charger every time. Thanks in advance.Update: i think it's because the usbc module beeds juice to operate. I just read that it's a common problem with laptops that weren't specially build for usbc charging. Apparently the usbc module is "smart" so it needs to kinda think whats plugged in before it could supply the energy to the battery while the original charger input is dumb so it just gives your laptop the raw power of the charger.
NEED ANSWER QUICK!!! NEED ANSWER QUICK!!!u/Miserable-Canary-721•10 hr. agoNEED ANSWER QUICK!!!SOLVEDin the linux mint xfce instalation, and i have the option to use lvm and encrypt the new linux mint  install, should i?
Is the "-d / --directory"  in ls command deprecated? Is the "-d / --directory"  in ls command deprecated?u/Griizal•3 days agoIs the "-d / --directory"  in ls command deprecated?Support RequestI want to examine the structure of my home directory without the filesBut it only returns "." but i have folders and sub-folders.
Is the future Mint only Cinnamon? Is the future Mint only Cinnamon?u/Kropotkin46•6 days agoIs the future Mint only Cinnamon?I'm fairly new to Linux Mint, have been using 22.2 Mate for a couple of months. Looking online for what's new on 22.3 it seems to be all about Cinnamon.I don't want Cinnamon! I chose Mate.  But it looks like I'll have to migrate or be left as a relic. So:*  What is new on MATE 22.3?*  Why all the love for Cinnamon?Pete S(ducks for cover...)
Had it, then lost it Had it, then lost itu/Pitch_Aware•4 days agoHad it, then lost itSupport RequestHad it, then lost itr/zorinos•4 days agoHad it, then lost itInstalled Zorin on Microsoft Surface GoIntel PentiumRam 4GBAfter stupid stuff done by myself, tried Timeshift, now tablet will not bootNo drive spaceI loved Zorin!  Is there any way getting it back?6upvotes·14comments
My OTHER drive not showing despite following all instructions. My OTHER drive not showing despite following all instructions.u/Ecstatic-Set-5119•3 days agoMy OTHER drive not showing despite following all instructions.My OTHER drive not showing despite following all instructions.r/linuxmint•3 days agoMy OTHER drive not showing despite following all instructions.I wiped data in bios and installed Linux mint cinnamon.The issue is I can see my 111gb drive but not my 900 gb drive .HELP4comments
New rig New rigu/Sonnenbrand66•5 days agoNew rig
My OTHER drive not showing despite following all instructions. My OTHER drive not showing despite following all instructions.u/Ecstatic-Set-5119•3 days agoMy OTHER drive not showing despite following all instructions.I wiped data in bios and installed Linux mint cinnamon.The issue is I can see my 111gb drive but not my 900 gb drive .HELP
These badges look great! These badges look great!u/Hopeless-Decoy•7 days agoThese badges look great!
Installing Mint on a laptop with a broken keyboard Installing Mint on a laptop with a broken keyboardu/ShadowlandAllstar•10 hr. agoInstalling Mint on a laptop with a broken keyboardHello, I bought a laptop on eBay last year, and a while back the keyboard stopped working. I have Windows 11 installed, and I use the onscreen keyboard,as well as a Bluetooth keyboard​ to type with. I want to get away from Windows 11, so I am considering creating a partition and installing Mint on it.I have concerns regarding the keyboard, though. Specifically, I'm wondering about the presence or absence of an onscreen keyboard. Would I be able to install Mint, and then boot into it, without using a physical keyboard? Thanks for any helpful replies.
Trouble verifying ISO on Windows 11 Trouble verifying ISO on Windows 11u/AggressiveMinimum405•11 hr. agoTrouble verifying ISO on Windows 11Support RequestI've been looking into making the jump to using Mint for a while now and today I downloaded Rufus and the ISO for the latest Cinnamon release Zena. I have Windows 11 and I'm using the Windows installer guide that should be for Windows 10 and wanted to know if the process was the exact same for verification. I'm also having trouble being able to download the two files for verification because every time I use Firefox the right-click and save link as, it says there's a problem and I wanted to know if I was trying to get them from the wrong place.  How do I make sure I've got the right files to start the verification process before I flash the ISO onto my usb so I can test Mint with a live-boot?
As Asu/IsHyperactive_•13 hr. agoAs
Week 1 with Mint!! :3 Week 1 with Mint!! :3u/digitalfawn•6 days agoWeek 1 with Mint!! :3Desktop Screenshot
2 months use 2 months useu/readit560•20 days ago2 months useDesktop Screenshot
How to build custom desklets How to build custom deskletsu/Pitiful-Exchange8772•13 hr. agoHow to build custom deskletsHey! I recently installed a windows 7 theme for linux mint. I searched around for desklets that 'looked' like windows 7 gadgets. the default ones don't really cut it. Can somebody experienced enough in building desklets.. tell me how can I build these desklets for myself?
Migrated to Linux mint today Migrated to Linux mint todayu/VeterinarianNo4219•4 days agoMigrated to Linux mint todayIs there any suggestions on how to get started and can you share how to secure my system ?
Problem trying to download the sha256sum.txt on linuxmint.com and when trying to use the mint verify iso tool (details below) Problem trying to download the sha256sum.txt on linuxmint.com and when trying to use the mint verify iso tool (details below)u/Alternative-Sir6883•16 hr. agoProblem trying to download the sha256sum.txt on linuxmint.com and when trying to use the mint verify iso tool (details below)Support Requesttrying to verify the iso with the URL that contains the sha256sum makes the tool hang forever.trying to go on linuxmint.com and clicking "Save link as" on the sha256sum.txt results in nothing happening, and then 5 minutes later it finally opened my file manager, but then couldn't save the file because "no network connection".also the Software Manager was glitched and showed the same rating and the flathub tag on all packages. I tried using the terminal to ping packages.linuxmint.com and it said it has a 100% packet loss.I ran sudo apt update which fixed the Software Manager and the ping command results, but the mint sha256sum URL is still inaccessible (on all my devices). Everything else in the system (including the wifi) works perfectly, except verifying the iso and accessing the sha256sum URL. Any ideas are welcome. Thank you
Cannot freely change between my headphones and soundbar for sound output, anu help? Cannot freely change between my headphones and soundbar for sound output, anu help?u/ChemistMelodic•4 days agoCannot freely change between my headphones and soundbar for sound output, anu help?Support RequestSo i have been using mint on and off for months now, but one problem that always gave me a little bit of "er, it is what it is" is that i can have my soundbar playing sound, like youtube, system sounds and music ok, but when i connect my headset, the only outputs that work are the headset and monitor sound channels, my soundbar goes completely unresponsive, am i missing a package or something? I switch between the 3 of them and my soundbar still stops working as soon as i connect the headset.
what did i do wrong? what did i do wrong?u/Opening-Size-7218•5 days agowhat did i do wrong?SOLVED
Coming back to Mint Coming back to Mintu/Ackbar_2606•23 days agoComing back to Mint
Mint Zena not regonized by the motherboard as bootable after update Mint Zena not regonized by the motherboard as bootable after updateu/DonHortolani•4 days agoMint Zena not regonized by the motherboard as bootable after updateSupport RequestHello, I'm new to Linux and I just installed Mint. As soon as I installed 22.3 from the website, there was some updates available, including the kernel update. Natually I installed them all, but when I tried to boot the PC again, the motherboard did not recognized the system. I needed to reinstall it to use my PC again, and it was kind funny because the Mint setup did reconized the Zena was installed. Unfortunately I do not have printscreens to share, but I would love if someone help me to update my PC and use the new kernel. Thanks in advance.My PC configurations:- Motherboard Biostar B450MHP - Secure boot is off, SATA mode is set to AHCI- CPU AMD Ryzen 5 4600G- GPU Radeon RX 6600/6600 XT/6600M- 24.0 GB RAM GDDR5
Cinamon 6.6.7 with potentially improved Wayland support has been released. Cinamon 6.6.7 with potentially improved Wayland support has been released.u/Itchy_Ruin_352•3 days agoCinamon 6.6.7 with potentially improved Wayland support has been released.JuhuuSee new Github Commits*https://github.com/linuxmint/cinnamon/commits/master/Typical X11 security issues that could be eliminated with Wayland:*https://thomasrones.com/technical/linux/x11-vs-wayland/What can developer do with currnt not compatible software components:Compatibility Layer: XWaylandBecause many apps still rely on X11, most Wayland environments ship with:XWayland: An X server running as a Wayland client.Lets old X11 apps run on Wayland without modification.https://thomasrones.com/technical/linux/x11-vs-wayland/Shorttest, still not working:* DuD of files between two Nemo windows.* DuD of files between Desktop and Nemo window.* DuD of Firefox tabs.
im new to linux mint and have had problems to preformance on my lenevo legion 5 laptop im new to linux mint and have had problems to preformance on my lenevo legion 5 laptopu/CartoonyBunn•16 hr. agoim new to linux mint and have had problems to preformance on my lenevo legion 5 laptopSupport Requesti have my power mode set for performance i have the latest nvidia drivers but i dont know what else i should check i dont think its being hard on my memory or cpu but i cant check my gpu performance so what things could i check for more performance?
Is this mirror made by and maintained by the Linux Mint devs? Is this mirror made by and maintained by the Linux Mint devs?[deleted]•13 days agoIs this mirror made by and maintained by the Linux Mint devs?
Installing Linux Mint was a dream of mine... Installing Linux Mint was a dream of mine...u/SuggestionBusy241•11 days agoInstalling Linux Mint was a dream of mine...#LinuxMintThings
I was sick of Windows... I'm happy now I was sick of Windows... I'm happy nowu/LinguiniDrawer•21 days agoI was sick of Windows... I'm happy nowDesktop Screenshot
3 Months using Linux Mint on my Gen 1 P14s. Couldn't be happier with the riddance of Windows! 3 Months using Linux Mint on my Gen 1 P14s. Couldn't be happier with the riddance of Windows!u/ungry_box•18 days ago3 Months using Linux Mint on my Gen 1 P14s. Couldn't be happier with the riddance of Windows!Linux Mint IRL
Libwacom version Libwacom versionu/Visible_Extension891•17 hr. agoLibwacom versionSupport RequestIs there a way to get a newer version of libwacom on Mint? Iirc it's now version 2.10, and I would need at least version 2.12 or 2.14 for my drawing display. I love mint, and this is the only thing missing. I've tried opentablet driver, but it has a quirk relating to pen tilt.
"The repository 'https://download.docker.com/linux/debian xia Release' does not have a Release file." "The repository 'https://download.docker.com/linux/debian xia Release' does not have a Release file."u/Valkonical•4 days ago"The repository 'https://download.docker.com/linux/debian xia Release' does not have a Release file."Support RequestTrying to sudo apt udate and I get this error. I am newish to linux and I have no idea how to fix it
Update Felt Fake Update Felt Fakeu/Haunting_Hunter_4751•1 mo. agoUpdate Felt FakeComing from a windows 11 user... who has only used linux for 1 week now at max, I was surprised looking at the size of the update - 200MB ish? What? I am used to GBs of update by Windows and the most surprising part was - It didn't take forever to shut down and it started on so quick that it felt to me as tho maybe the update wasn't installed. I had to check terminal haha. This is something new
Ye613 y Ye613 yu/pugbrain•18 hr. agoYe613 y
I have some sort of dumb meta questions. How big is the core Mint team with commit / merge access? I have some sort of dumb meta questions. How big is the core Mint team with commit / merge access?u/i_am_fear_itself•4 days agoI have some sort of dumb meta questions. How big is the core Mint team with commit / merge access?DiscussionI was just browsing the linuxmint github and it looks like about a dozen people. They have a jaw-dropping 157 repos and many are related to Cinnamon.So, Cinnamon is a distinctly Mint package, right?I have an issue. when I looked into it found that it's been an issue for a LONG, LONG time. What the issue is about is irrelevant but it got me thinking about the maintainers population size. My illusion is that there's so much code to regression test that merging downstream branches is not close to possible.
Gave xfce a try after cinnamon Gave xfce a try after cinnamonu/Inevitable-Depth1228•21 days agoGave xfce a try after cinnamonDesktop Screenshot
I just cannot believe how terrible Windows is after installing Mint on my 8 and 12 year old laptops. I just cannot believe how terrible Windows is after installing Mint on my 8 and 12 year old laptops.u/Front-Round2853•1 mo. agoI just cannot believe how terrible Windows is after installing Mint on my 8 and 12 year old laptops.Now they both function perfectly. My 8 year old laptop, that was struggling immensely to even play CK3 with minimum graphics in Windows 10, now runs CK3 on max graphics perfectly on Mint.My 12yo laptop runs so smoothly, it is unreal.Thanks Linux mint. :)
New Kernel installed but not implemented New Kernel installed but not implementedu/Fantastic_Lie6103•18 hr. agoNew Kernel installed but not implementedSupport Request
First time using linux First time using linuxu/Old-Assignment1236•5 days agoFirst time using linuxDesktop Screenshot
Destroyed OS trying to install wine Destroyed OS trying to install wineu/molly_muffet•6 days agoDestroyed OS trying to install wineDiscussionI wanted to install wine so I used"sudo apt install wine"To check if it had installed correctly I typed "wine" and got a message similar to 'something is missing use sudo apt-get install wine32:i386'I ran the suggested command and it started removing all my programs. After it finished,  i'd guess 90 percent of the programs and packages were removed. This included core functions such as the network.I rebooted hoping that would help. The grub menu worked fine but when I selected mint I was met with only a terminal as my desktop manager(?) had been deleted.Apt was useless as there was no network but all my files were still there just not any packages hardly.I was able to manually mount a usb and move my files onto it before reinstalling using a live usb.My question is how did this happen?I am running Mint 22.3. Lmk if there are any other specs you want.
Logitech G205 X Mouse (Fullscreen) Sensitivity/Scaling issue? Logitech G205 X Mouse (Fullscreen) Sensitivity/Scaling issue?u/CodeOrangelt543•4 days agoLogitech G205 X Mouse (Fullscreen) Sensitivity/Scaling issue?Support RequestHi everyone!Left Windows about a week ago, and Linux has me excited to use my computer every single day! Being said, I'm having an issue with some-what older games specifically on my PC. Basically when I play games, it like almost completely relies on my DPI scaling... meaning that only at the highest option allowable by my mouse it's almost playable. But when I play other games like, Rocket League or Minecraft the mouse settings are perfectly fine.Separately when I play full screen games, I cannot Alt-Tab or minimize unless i close the game. When I play Borderless/Windowed Fullscreen I can move outside of the game, but my mouse never captures to the game I'm playing.These issues are persistent, and very frustrating haha. Any help would be appreciated. :)
Screen goes black, no input possible Screen goes black, no input possibleu/KleineKeizer•4 days agoScreen goes black, no input possibleSupport RequestHello,I am new to Linux and Mint. My laptop keeps crashing during online meetings and in the past also while playing video. It happens both in Firefox and Vivaldi.Sound keeps playing and my camera light remains on but the screen goes fully black. I tried ctrl alt esc and ctrl alt backspace but it is not doing anything.What are the steps to determine what is happening? How can I solve this? What kind of information do you need from me to help me along?Thank you all
Cinnamon: Screen too dark, colors too bright/dark Cinnamon: Screen too dark, colors too bright/darku/Tingsilike•4 days agoCinnamon: Screen too dark, colors too bright/darkSupport RequestWhat is the best way to go about adjusting the colors in cinnamon? Before cinnamon I was running Zara & I can't remember what i used but it wasn't this bad. For instance when I am on Facebook & click on an image to load it as it's own (seperate window) it darkens by alot. & certain images are dark & color saturation is off.. Any help appreciated. Thanks
My 10 year old PC runs like new! My 10 year old PC runs like new!u/grand_disappointment•1 mo. agoMy 10 year old PC runs like new!Desktop Screenshot
I love cinnamon so much (wayland) I love cinnamon so much (wayland)u/WerIstLuka•23 days agoI love cinnamon so much (wayland)
Linux Mint Wi-Fi detects network but won’t connect Linux Mint Wi-Fi detects network but won’t connectu/duck_-90•4 days agoLinux Mint Wi-Fi detects network but won’t connectMy laptopdetects Wi-Fi networks, but itwon’t connect to some of them.The connection either fails or keeps asking for the password.The laptopcan connect to other Wi-Fi networksSome networksnever connect on Linux MintThose same networkswork normally on other devicesWi-Fi works fine on this laptop when using WindowsSo the issue seems to beLinux Mint–related, not hardware or the router.Any help would be appreciated.
First time user no audio First time user no audiou/zeb236•4 days agoFirst time user no audioSupport RequestI’m on a brand new Alienware Area 51 18, wanted to try out Linux but no matter what I do there’s no audio. I’ve tried every YouTube tutorial I can find, chat gpt has also given up. Is there a solution for this ?
NVIDIA GPU not as performant as it should be (and it's annoying) NVIDIA GPU not as performant as it should be (and it's annoying)u/MzSvelenaya•18 hr. agoNVIDIA GPU not as performant as it should be (and it's annoying)Graphics DriversNVIDIA GPU not as performant as it should be (and it's annoying)r/linux_gaming•18 hr. agoNVIDIA GPU not as performant as it should be (and it's annoying)I everyone, I'm a small streamer who made the switch to Linux a month ago and I'm quite happy with it except that I feel like my NVIDIA GPU is not as performant as it used to be on Windows 10.On Win11 I was able to run OBS (streaming in 720p 30fps, normal GPU encoding and recording the vertical version), use PNGtuber plus and modeling on Blender. Now, my GPU it 100% even without the recording, and I put the streaming in CPU encoding. And I sometimes close PNGtuber plus to help the GPU...I have a dual monitor setup and my GPU is NVIDIA GEFORCE RTX 2060 (6GB) and I use Linux Mint Cinnamon. I use proprietary drivers and have disabled secure boot.Do you have an idea because it's so annoying to have a laggy stream. (Even while playing Celeste)20comments
11 year old Toshiba Satellite brought back to life with Linux Mint XFCE 11 year old Toshiba Satellite brought back to life with Linux Mint XFCEu/Rude-Show7666•24 days ago11 year old Toshiba Satellite brought back to life with Linux Mint XFCEDiscussion
What's my problem? What's my problem?u/Away_Bike_4592•6 days agoWhat's my problem?
Hey, so I am struggling Hey, so I am strugglingu/vipanen•1 day agoHey, so I am strugglingSOLVEDOkay, so I heard that linux could make my old laptop usable again and I've been struggling for about the past ~6h. I know this is probably embarrassing as hell, because I am notoriously not too great with computers but I want to learn and get some use from my old laptop for most likely video editing purposes because it has a lot of space.Right now I'm at the integrity check and the problem is that I'm not sure If my files passed it. After putting the command to find the alphanumeric sequence from sha256sum.txt as the guide told me only the text "----------- SHA256SUM.TXT" appeared without showing the alphanumeric sequence and the ISO file after it, like in the picture on the windows specific guide for that step. When I googled the issue I couldn't find a proper answer, because no error message appeared either. I downloaded the ISO file twice already from the official site and it happened both times when I ran the check.I'm completely  inexperienced and pretty lost so please don't judge me too harshly for not understanding how this works.Edit: I got everything figured out, thanks for the help! I ended up skipping the check and it all worked fine regardless. I had an issue with making the bootable usb stick at first with the program the guide on the official site told me to use (I forgot it's name sorry), but it worked fine with rufus so I recommend using that.Also sorry that this edit is a bit late, I went to bed right after I finished the installment since it was like 2am at the time.
Geforce Now unusable (mouse wheel unrecognized in games) Geforce Now unusable (mouse wheel unrecognized in games)u/Ezahn•4 days agoGeforce Now unusable (mouse wheel unrecognized in games)I was anxiously awaiting for the official Geforce Now app for Linux and here it is.Unfortunately in my case it's not working properly on Mint 22.3: the app load games no problem, butthe mouse wheel is simply not recognized at all while in any game!So i cannot zoom in/out, scroll menus etc... basically rendering the GFN app unusable.I've not had the same problem with PikaOS on another boot drive, btw. So it's not the hardware. I thought Mint would have been fine since it's strictly tied to Ubuntu, the only officially supported distro.I am experiencing other weirdness like the GFN app starting sorta fullscreen and I not being able to grab the window, resize etc... basically it feels stuck. I can't even close it withou going into system monitor and kill the process.Someone had the same problem and managed to solve it?Thanks in advance!Top
Why is this so hard? Why is this so hard?u/CarbineCoyote•19 hr. agoWhy is this so hard?I want so badly to get away from the Microslop AI spyware. But gaming on Linux Mint is nigh impossible. Why can’t I just download Arc Raiders and go? It has a platinum rating! I don't want to mess around with different versions of Proton and random %command%s. I spent 5+ hours messing around with it and it still crashes before I can even get into a raid..I'm definitely not installing Linux on my main computer atp. "Just pick a distro, it doesn't matter." my ass.
Saving an old grandpa Saving an old grandpau/rubertmarston•9 days agoSaving an old grandpaDesktop Screenshot
Polychromatic giving error when I try launching it Polychromatic giving error when I try launching itu/TheGreatDragon81•4 days agoPolychromatic giving error when I try launching itSOLVEDWhen I launch Polychromatic, I get the following error:Traceback (most recent call last):File ’/usr/bin/polychromatic-controller’, line 310, in _change_tabtab_objects[index].set_tab()File ’/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/polychromatic/controller/devices.py’, line 102, in set_tabopenrazer_version = self.middleman.get_backend(’openrazer’).version^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^AttributeError: ’NoneType’ object has no attribute ’version’----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Does anyone know what I can do to fix this?I am also new to linux
Trouble Installing Mint On SSD In A Lenovo Z50-75 Laptop Trouble Installing Mint On SSD In A Lenovo Z50-75 Laptopu/Old_Fart52•4 days agoTrouble Installing Mint On SSD In A Lenovo Z50-75 LaptopInstall HelpI was able to install Mint off a DVD onto the laptop's original 1TB magnetic HDD (it's one of those old Seagate Hybrid SSD/HDDs) which works but lags, slow to respond to keystrokes and mouse clicks even though it has 16GB of RAM but I've tried 2 different SSDs (SanDisk 250GB & Patriot 256GB models) and it keeps sticking, won't get as far as the live desktop using a DVD or USB drives (Kingston Data Traveller 256GB) when either SSD has been installed into the laptop.The startup script sticks at 'Load Kernel Module Loop' in normal mode and 'job idconfig.service/start running ( 20s no limit )' when trying to boot in compatibility mode.I was able to boot GParted off a CD and create an ext2 partition on both SSDs whilst installed in the laptop.The SanDisk SSD now lives in another old laptop of almost identical age and I was able to install Mint on it and it's working fine so I've no reason to believe that either SSD is faulty, they're both brand new.I've installed the latest BIOS/UEFI version into the laptop and I've also run 2 complete cycles of memtest86+ with no faults showing on the RAM.I've used 3 different pieces of software to create the USB boot drive - Universal USB Installer, Rufus and Balena Etcher and tried booting with the BIOS set to both Legacy Mode and UEFI modes with secure boot turned off.I don't understand why I can't get to the live desktop to do an install.   I've been on the Lenovo sub and others have successfully installed an SSD into this make & model laptop and have it working OK, could it maybe be that it doesn't like the USB sticks I'm using? there's 2 Kingston Data Travellers of the same capacityAnyone have any bright ideas?
Back on Mint after having to leave. Back on Mint after having to leave.u/MrLewGin•4 days agoBack on Mint after having to leave.DiscussionIn June last year I got a new PC with a newly released AMD RX 9060XT GPU. I couldn't use Mint because the Kernel was too old, I attempted to install Mint with the aim of modifying the Kernel, but I couldn't even get Mint installed.So I had to move to Fedora KDE which had a newer Kernel version. It was fine, but it didn't feel like home the way Mint does. As soon as I heard the news that Mint ships newer Kernels with their releases now, I installed it.A concern I had was whether I'd have screen tearing issues with my AMD GPU, thankfully I came acrossthispost, which contains a very simple fix for that. It worked perfectly.The only other concern I had was, if Mint /Cinnamon/X11 would negatively impact gaming performance, I'm pleased to say it absolutely hasn't, if anything I seem to be getting slightly better performance with modern 2023-2025 games on Mint.So, all that's left to say is, I'm so pleased to be back home on Mint.
I’m new to Mint , but is so familiar… I’m new to Mint , but is so familiar…u/dedicat2013•20 hr. agoI’m new to Mint , but is so familiar…I’m new to mint just because I need local AI tools , and Gemini suggested Mint . Is great at replacing my windows 11 install, I’m in a dual boot situation now , I’m testing . Just a hint , if you want to delete a shortcut of your samba share from desktop, don’t , is deleting the hole shared folder 😄😄😄 .
What's wrong w my boot? What's wrong w my boot?u/PalpitationPure5584•21 hr. agoWhat's wrong w my boot?Support Request
Mint Impact (Wallpaper) Mint Impact (Wallpaper)u/SpeeQz•3 days agoMint Impact (Wallpaper)Fluff
Searching for a future proof plank alternative Searching for a future proof plank alternativeu/phiphifier•4 days agoSearching for a future proof plank alternativeDiscussion
EFI USB Device Boot Fail? EFI USB Device Boot Fail?u/Blakat014•4 days agoEFI USB Device Boot Fail?SOLVED
Linux gaming server hit by ransomware Linux gaming server hit by ransomwareu/kRaSh1979_MrK•6 days agoLinux gaming server hit by ransomwareAs with anything, I always search and read articles that already exist to get information and rarely post anything. However, I have noticed a TON of hate and ignorance and just generally awful people replying to a simple question.And that question was and is, what is the best way to protect a Linux system? Linux is virus resistant, not virus proof, so AV is still needed because Clam isn't enough.Now before anyone asks, here's the facts. This is a dedicated gaming server, no email setup, no web browsing, and game files are only installed via Steam. Nobody uses the server, it sits in a server room. And we run the server with a user account, and not in root.We have the TargetCompany Mallox ransomware on this server as of today, and we're trying to get rid of it.We found good information on nomoreransom.org But I still need a virus scanner that is realtime.Any helpful advice is welcome, any derogatory speech toward me or anyone else replying is unnecessary.Thank you in advance.
Why i cant update mint xfce Why i cant update mint xfceu/Asa_bias_baemon•4 days agoWhy i cant update mint xfceSupport Request
My first experience with linux so far My first experience with linux so faru/Frank_ilcyan•3 days agoMy first experience with linux so farHardware Rescue
New kernel update New kernel updateu/captain_poophead•4 days agoNew kernel updateAnnouncementI just noticed there's a kernel update. Latest version is 6.17.0-14 and it's supported until August 2026. Just installed in a few minutes ago and everything seems to work just fine. I did create a snapshot before downloading, just in case. What's changed in this update and are you switching?
How do i fix BCD error when trying to boot windows from linux mint via ventoy? How do i fix BCD error when trying to boot windows from linux mint via ventoy?u/hotlinefever•22 hr. agoHow do i fix BCD error when trying to boot windows from linux mint via ventoy?Support RequestHow do i fix BCD error when trying to boot windows from linux mint via ventoy?r/linuxquestions•22 hr. agoHow do i fix BCD error when trying to boot windows from linux mint via ventoy?Tried to use ventoy to boot windows 11 from flash drive, but after doing all steps correctly i get the error saying that my PC needs to be repaired and that the BCD is either missing or corrupted. I cannot access the command prompt (from what im aware) because im trying to do this from linux mint. i dont really know what to do, and i just need to get back to windows 11. pls help1upvote·6comments
Why did I stay with Windows for so long? Why did I stay with Windows for so long?u/Equal-Moose-6645•2 days agoWhy did I stay with Windows for so long?Its been 3 months I moved to Linux Mint and all I can say is I am not missing anything from Windows. Rate my desktop, ask me anything.
Taskbar customization: How to cure it of seamless tabs? Taskbar customization: How to cure it of seamless tabs?u/ZeldaTheSwordsman•4 days agoTaskbar customization: How to cure it of seamless tabs?Support RequestSo, today I got around to giving Linux Mint a test drive because I'm considering switching. And while I am pleased with a number of aspects, the MATE panel that acts as the taskbar... has a design choice that I find to be a severe headache: Seamless tabs.There are no visible divider lines between the various windows on it, nor are they distinctly-separarate 3D objects as on the Windows Classic taskbar. They're just all muddled together with only the icons to separate them. And there's no setting to change this. I find this genuinely a bit disorienting, so it's an accessibility issue for me - Firefox perpetrating this design choice with ProtonUI forced me to stick with a deprecated version that still used Photon (up until late 2023 when someone pointed me to LibreWolf).Can anyone direct me to a solution? I've been trying to search but haven't had any luck thus far.
Is there any way I can bypass my college Linux mint system to know the password Is there any way I can bypass my college Linux mint system to know the passwordu/creativeBeast787•4 days agoIs there any way I can bypass my college Linux mint system to know the passwordI am an CS undergrade in India,and in my collegelibrary they provides me computers with Linux mintalthough that system arefor web searching and reading e-bookI use to do programming[other tech things] on them butnow they changed the password of all the computers and we can only access via guest userand that limit my work as I can't download any package or tools now as they require sudo command or password basically.Is there any way I can bypass my college Linux mint system to know the passwordor what can I do in this situation?Any suggestions
Wifi Speeds Slow compared to Windows Wifi Speeds Slow compared to Windowsu/LinuxQuestioner67•4 days agoWifi Speeds Slow compared to WindowsHello, is there a reason why my wifi speeds would be much slower on Mint?I dual boot Windows and Mint and when I download things through Steam on Mint I get about 100mbps and when I download on Windows I get 600mbps
LMDE w/ Hyprland and keyboard focused navigation? LMDE w/ Hyprland and keyboard focused navigation?u/nippleodean•4 days agoLMDE w/ Hyprland and keyboard focused navigation?DiscussionMoving from Omarchy for reasons. Would like to use Hyprland or something similar along with navigating as much as possible with the keyboard. Anybody have a setup like this?
Better to trip than to be pushed Better to trip than to be pushed[deleted]•3 days agoBetter to trip than to be pushedDiscussionI finally moved last year, not only because of the AI bs on windows, but because a fresh windows install was so much hassle that I was just, like, screw it, let me try this easy to use distro. And it turns out it works fine.Obviously there are little annoying things that require dealing with (small nightmare on making a elite 2 controller work over bluetooth, fixed now). The update last month also toasted my kernel. Turns out a fresh install was even more of a breeze than the first one.Ultimately I understood why it feels better on linux: when something doesn't work I feel it's a bit random and maybe there's a way to fix it. On windows, the feeling is that they are actively screwing you. It's the difference between tripping and being pushed. The fall hurt is the same, but the intention makes a difference.
Desktop background picture problem Desktop background picture problemu/old_raver_man3•22 hr. agoDesktop background picture problemI am using desktop display setting user interface 200% for my icons, but this causes desktop background pictures to be too large.  How to make pictures fit?
How do I learn CLI How do I learn CLIu/VeterinarianNo4219•3 days agoHow do I learn CLIHello everyone,  I wrote here yesterday after I migrated to Linux mint from Windows. Thank you everyone who wrote me suggestions and tips about getting started. I know that now you don’t need Terminal for 90% of stuff on Linux but I want to get deeper into this system so I ask you, what recourses to use to get better at using Terminal
Sound setting freezes when switching devices/profiles Sound setting freezes when switching devices/profilesu/jnelsoninjax•4 days agoSound setting freezes when switching devices/profilesSupport RequestI have headphones connected via Bluetooth. Occasionally, when they turn on, the system recognizes that they are connected but continues playing audio through the built-in speakers. When this happens, I go to the sound settings and select the headphones. Even though the device becomes active and sound starts coming through the headphones, the sound settings window freezes. A popup eventually appears saying it's not responding, and I'm given the option to wait or force stop.This happens every time I open the sound settings and try to switch the output device or change the device profile.Any idea why this is happening and what (if anything) can be done to fix it?
¿Cómo agrupar lanzadores y ventanas en el mismo icono en XFCE? (Tipo Dock) ¿Cómo agrupar lanzadores y ventanas en el mismo icono en XFCE? (Tipo Dock)u/o_xeneixe•4 days ago¿Cómo agrupar lanzadores y ventanas en el mismo icono en XFCE? (Tipo Dock)¿Cómo agrupar lanzadores y ventanas en el mismo icono en XFCE? (Tipo Dock)r/xfce•4 days ago¿Cómo agrupar lanzadores y ventanas en el mismo icono en XFCE? (Tipo Dock)Hello. I'm using XFCE and I'm looking to configure the panel to function like a modern dock .Currently, when I add a launcher to an application and open it, a new space is created in the window list, with the launcher icon on one side and the open application icon on the other. This seems redundant to me.Is there any way to make the launcher icon the same as the one that manages the open window? Basically, I'm looking for the functionality to 'pin' applications to the panel (pin to taskbar) to avoid duplicates. What plugin or configuration do you recommend for this?P.S: I used chatgpt to translate my post; English isn't my first language.6comments
Accidentally Deleted reviews.json file in my mintinstall folder in my .cache Accidentally Deleted reviews.json file in my mintinstall folder in my .cacheu/DangerChunt•1 day agoAccidentally Deleted reviews.json file in my mintinstall folder in my .cacheSOLVEDI accidentally deleted a .json file in my cache. It was reviews.json in the mintinstall folder. How screwed am I?
How can i toggle Warm light on my LINUX mint xfce How can i toggle Warm light on my LINUX mint xfceu/ilovepuppies9999•1 day agoHow can i toggle Warm light on my LINUX mint xfceSupport Requesti searched on Gemini, it told to install Redshift and use "redshift -O 3600", it did turn the screen yellow-ish and looked warm but in the same session it got to default color again, it should be back to default once i turn off the system or restart the system, how can i add toggle button or atleast keep the warm light for running for a session ??
Problem with Steam and Window Focus Problem with Steam and Window Focusu/ElAdrninistrador•4 days agoProblem with Steam and Window FocusGamingProblem with Steam and Window Focusr/linux_gaming•4 days agoProblem with Steam and Window FocusI'm on Linuxmint Cinnamon, and I have the Issue that I can't click the Pop-ups of Steam, y'know things like "Add to Favorites" or "Remove from this Collection", and I figured out that the problem was my configuration about Window Focus, I put it as "Focus Follow Mouse" but Flatpak Steam can't support it, so I need to put it like "Click to Focus".I found the first one more comfortable, cause I also use the terminal for coding, and I really want to fix Steam, is there something I can do to fix it (besides of installing Deb Steam?).Thanks!1upvote·1comment
Went for that Frutiger Aero asthetic. I think it looks pretty nice Went for that Frutiger Aero asthetic. I think it looks pretty niceu/Stardust_Spreader•5 days agoWent for that Frutiger Aero asthetic. I think it looks pretty niceDesktop Screenshot
My storage just slowly fills up without time shift My storage just slowly fills up without time shiftu/CourageNo1991•4 days agoMy storage just slowly fills up without time shiftHi im new to Linux and I’m only all right with computers but every single time I install one cement the storage just slowly fills up. Even if I don’t install anything or do anything, it’s just slowly filling up is this normal? Is this a virus? Should I be worried?
Me pase a linux mint hoy mismo de tarde, pero, tengo un error con el audio Me pase a linux mint hoy mismo de tarde, pero, tengo un error con el audiou/Severe-Tie698•4 days agoMe pase a linux mint hoy mismo de tarde, pero, tengo un error con el audioLO que pasa es que al conectar mi monitor/TV mediante HDMI y tratar de reproducir un video el sonido del audio sale como robótico, y ya probe con otros cabkles y sigue saliendo robótico por lo que lotuve tocando cosas en el terminar mediante alsamixer, pero hay veces que funciona y luego deja de funcionar, necesito de su ayuda por favor
Using Windows as Virtual Machine on Linux Using Windows as Virtual Machine on Linuxu/ido-longbeard•2 days agoUsing Windows as Virtual Machine on Linuxhello! i'm a .NET developer and I work mainly with legacy systems. I would like to know from other Linux users if it is worth using Windows as a VM just to work with .NET legacy projects as well as Visual Studio 2022. I have 32gb of RAM available.I know I could go for dual boot, but I would like to explore and check this other option. has anyone done that before? how was the experience?I used linux mint and enjoyed it a lot but had to switch back to windows because of the nature of my work.thanks
Linux Mint - Cinnamon - Drive Partition & File System Tips. - YouTube Linux Mint - Cinnamon - Drive Partition & File System Tips. - YouTubeu/InevitableRagnarok•4 days agoLinux Mint - Cinnamon - Drive Partition & File System Tips. - YouTubeGuide
Fedora or Arch after mint? Fedora or Arch after mint?u/Random-UserXD•4 days agoFedora or Arch after mint?SOLVEDI am a little bored so i want to try other distros should i go with arch or fedorapls clarify which one is betterthx
Erro de conexão de Ethernet no mint Erro de conexão de Ethernet no mintu/belico-•4 days agoErro de conexão de Ethernet no mintSupport RequestNotebook não está mais reconhecendo a conexão ethernet, linux mint 22.3. Como resolver ?
trying to play pirated omori with wine trying to play pirated omori with wineu/appleforethicalfarm•1 day agotrying to play pirated omori with wineSupport RequestIt just won't seem to actually play on 9.0 wine (possibly it wont find the files for it? looking for a solution)
I'm using Linux Mint. Should I download Steam as a .deb file from the official website, or should I install the 'Steam system package' from the Software Manager? I'm using Linux Mint. Should I download Steam as a .deb file from the official website, or should I install the 'Steam system package' from the Software Manager?u/CardSpare2558•7 days agoI'm using Linux Mint. Should I download Steam as a .deb file from the official website, or should I install the 'Steam system package' from the Software Manager?I noticed that the Lutris APT package in the Software Manager is quite outdated (over 2 years old). For software that moves as fast as Lutris, should I prefer the official .deb from their website, or is Flatpak a better option in this case?
So I have a 12 year old Dell laptop with a Nvidia card unfortunately So I have a 12 year old Dell laptop with a Nvidia card unfortunatelyu/No-Blueberry-1823•5 days agoSo I have a 12 year old Dell laptop with a Nvidia card unfortunatelySOLVEDI want to play old Atari, Sega and Nintendo games and trying to do the second monitor to a TV turned into a huge disappointment so I'm trying to decide if I should get a USB video card. Thoughts?  The TV I am using is also very old and is struggling to refresh beyond 30 hz at 1080p resolution (update) from chatgpt flashed rom then used command line to create bootable mint 21.3 and picked Nvidia 470 to go along with the my 970 GeForce gtx Mobile
I've never posted here before. I've never posted here before.u/mdfrabby•4 days agoI've never posted here before.
can some help me figure out this sudo apt update error im getting.... is it because they were downloaded from a browser and not the software manager?? any help would be helpful can some help me figure out this sudo apt update error im getting.... is it because they were downloaded from a browser and not the software manager?? any help would be helpfulu/Think-Anywhere-6494•1 day agocan some help me figure out this sudo apt update error im getting.... is it because they were downloaded from a browser and not the software manager?? any help would be helpful
I've had enough of MS. I've had enough of MS.u/thatdirtyoldman•25 days agoI've had enough of MS.
Switched to LMDE Switched to LMDEu/Nueveh_680•4 days agoSwitched to LMDEDiscussionSooooo I just switched to Linux Mint Debian Edition. I installed GNOME desktop and customized it a bit. Any tips for a beginner? Just extra info, I barely know anything about the apt package manager, since all the distros I've used had another package manager (pacman, dnf).
How to manually install Open RGB udev rules?!? How to manually install Open RGB udev rules?!?u/rabisav•5 days agoHow to manually install Open RGB udev rules?!?DiscussionBrand new to Linux using Mint. I've installed Open RGB from the software manager and when i run it i get an error message that I need to manually install the udev rules. I click the link dowload the install script and then i'm stuck. How do i install it?
[Success] Dual booting CachyOS with Mint already installed [Success] Dual booting CachyOS with Mint already installedu/razorisrandom•5 days ago[Success] Dual booting CachyOS with Mint already installedDiscussionPosting another success story in case someone out there is in a similar situation.While using an old laptop to test distros, I first installed Mint and loved how it works without issue. I fell in love with it's reliability and ease of use. When I wanted to test the CachyOS waters, I refused to give up Mint as a stable workhorse and decided I would try to dual boot the two operating systems through GRUB.The first install was a bust as GRUB was not detecting the new partition/OS. I selected GRUB as the startup option, then partitioned the drive through CachyOS installer and thought that would be it, but I was wrong. Refreshing GRUB in a Mint terminal did nothing, even after multiple reboots. Bios showed no signs of the new partition either. (I should note this is on an ancient HDD so it's slower spin might affect the ability to detect other partitions when booting.)In Mint, I deleted the CachyOS partition, then used Gparted to reserve a blank partition before running the CachyOS flashdrive. Maybe partitioning through the existing os instead of the installer would help?During the second CachyOS attempt, I realized that I didn't select Mint's file system (ext4) on the first. I honestly don't know if this would help the issue with GRUB, but it was worth a shot (and the more compatibility on a system the better).Installed CachyOS to the blank partition, rebooted, refreshed GRUB in Mint (terminal stated it saw CachyOS), rebooted, and there was the option to boot Mint *and* CachyOS.CachyOS is definitely more responsive and modern-looking than Mint, but I can already tell it's far less stable. Time will tell how well I adapt to an Arch-based distro, but I always have a home with Mint on this machine.Mint works hard, CachyOS plays hard.
Just installed Linux Mint Just installed Linux Mintu/Kindly-Put-4414•5 days agoJust installed Linux Mint
Headset gibt kein Ton aus bei Linux Mint Headset gibt kein Ton aus bei Linux Mintu/Single-Athlete-8658•5 days agoHeadset gibt kein Ton aus bei Linux Mint
NVIDIA drivers help NVIDIA drivers helpu/Effective-Complaint4•1 day agoNVIDIA drivers helpI recently switched to mint on my LOQ 15ARP9 with a 4060 and ryzen 7000 series. It works great and actually made my laptop much quieter since gaming laptops earn their reputation. Ive been playing some steam games that are verified steam deck so they should be compatible with linux to some level. I was aware that NVIDIA support for linux wasnt as extensive as AMD but im honestly a little disappointed with the graphics performance. Ive had to reduce the settings past what I expected which stings since I got used to playing at a higher quality. GOW is a fair trade since that is a demanding experience but terraria was giving me jumpy frame rates. Im not super knowledgeable about all this I just installed the recommended drivers but I got to be missing something. Any help or tips would be appreciated. Heres my current NVIDIA settings.NVIDIA Driver Version:590.48.01NVML Version:13.590.48.01
Finally switched to Linux Mint after being a windows user for over a decade. Can't wait to get started. Finally switched to Linux Mint after being a windows user for over a decade. Can't wait to get started.u/MidnightPanda_567•22 days agoFinally switched to Linux Mint after being a windows user for over a decade. Can't wait to get started.
Spotify Webapp is 1.6 GB alone and Tunmblr is 1.4 GB Spotify Webapp is 1.6 GB alone and Tunmblr is 1.4 GBu/Griizal•3 days agoSpotify Webapp is 1.6 GB alone and Tunmblr is 1.4 GBDiscussionTo be clear, i dont think those webapp/socail medias are malicious or anything, but i am wondering where all the storage comesThe app are made by webapp manager using firefox. I figure out their size using disk analyzer.I think its probably DRM stuff, since i them enabled on both but its possible its clutter and firefox would have taken care of it normally outside webapp manager. Just speculating.
Finally left windows for good! Finally left windows for good!u/xsniperkajanx•24 days agoFinally left windows for good!Desktop Screenshot
Never posted my setup, here it is. Never posted my setup, here it is.u/Opening-Giraffe-1007•8 days agoNever posted my setup, here it is.Desktop Screenshot
Best way to manage software? Best way to manage software?u/Ord0c•7 days agoBest way to manage software?DiscussionI finally made to switch from W10, as I'm going to need a transition period before it eventually becomes unusable, and after the basic setup, I've been looking into alternative software solutions.I'm kind of stuck with the different ways software is obtained, installed and eventually managed and I hope to find some answers here.From my limited understanding, there are different types of files and different types of sources.The built-in software manager pulls everything from the official servers, and afaik all software from that source are legit and safe?There is also flatpak available through the software manager, which should be equally solid, though I have a difficult time to tell if software is distributed officially or if it has another person making that flatpak? Is that a thing even? How can I tell the difference?Then there is multiple other options. Depending on what I want to install, it's telling me to use the terminal, download an AppImage (which I think is basically .exe?) or snap.I'm wondering if there is a certain hierarchy, like which install option should I always pick if available, which is the second best alternative etc?One aspect that also adds to the confusion: terminal commands seem to be slightly different. Sometimes it tells me to type sudo apt install, other times it's wget or chmod, and maybe something else, idk.Some sites suggest to use one approach for ubuntu based distros, others for debian based, but afaik Mint is both? Does it make a difference then?Additionally, some projects on github have very bare-bones documentation for Linux specifically, it seems like everyone else knows what to do, but I'm just completely lost trying to figure out which approach applies to me and if I can even run that software on Mint in the first place.As for software managing, I'm not sure I'm doing things right. Everything is being installed one way or another, but it seems I need to use the terminal for some to get updates, while others need a reinstall, while others are updated automatically?Is there some sort of solution that shows me all installed software, and allows me to update them all with one click?Also wondering if I should use Docker to containerize all installs to make it easier to manage? Is that a stupid idea?Lots of questions still, but these are the most important right now because I'm finding myself super hesitant to get started properly.
Switched to linux ✅️ Switched to linux ✅️[deleted]•21 days agoSwitched to linux ✅️Desktop Screenshot
I need help I need helpu/Prisonthatisreddit•1 day agoI need helpSupport Request
Glad I made the switch from MS - Never going back Glad I made the switch from MS - Never going backu/daniel57-nl•6 days agoGlad I made the switch from MS - Never going backUlauncherKitty terminalPlank ReloadedTime and Date Desklet
Improve network speed Improve network speedu/Expensive-Vanilla-16•4 days agoImprove network speedSupport RequestI have recently decided to upgrade a switch and ethernet cards to 2.5gb for a little upgrade.  My equipment isn't really new enough to justify 10gbe.One older PC Linux Mint sata ssd drive benchmarks at 456 MB/s and the other newer machines nvme ssd at 3500 MB/sBoth Speeds are listed 2500Mb/s using ethtool.Used iperf3 and it verifys 2.5 gb speeds.Tried warpionator and my maximum File transfers are around 68 to 82 MB/s.  It was only in the 50s before.  So not much of a bump in transfer speed.Also tried SMB to another computer running omv and it's nvme still only reaches 55-58 MB/s..Wondering if there are any tweaks I should look at doing?  Hell I was getting the 50s with my spinning drives.Patch cables from the 2.5gb switch to the machines are cat6.
need help with random pc freezing need help with random pc freezingu/ZorroKIM•4 days agoneed help with random pc freezingSupport RequestHello, I am fairly new to linux but i been using it for about a month or 2, playing games ect i notice my game been randomly freezing, and when i do alt+tab i can't open anything it just freezes, and i am stuck on whatever game i am playing. Has anyone had this happen if so, how do I fix it?
So then somebody asks: What do you do Next? So then somebody asks: What do you do Next?u/TiredTeck•4 days agoSo then somebody asks: What do you do Next?So then somebody asks: What do you do Next?First I check the software Sources. It sometimes reverts back to the default. My local mirror is 30 miles down the road. I do not think I need to pull from the UK. As always update the apt cache when changing or checking your software sources.Software I install on all my systems. Using Software Manager install these:VLC – Why you you not have this?Open SSH Server – Well yeah.Samba – I prefer Samba over NFS. Versatile but Needs Configurations modified.Tiger VNC Viewer – I found this VNC Viewer to be the best option for my setup.X11VNCSever Yes your need a Server and Viewer. Modify configuration to start and allow connection every boot.There are other options for a VNC system. I looked at and tried different ones and settled on the X11 - Tiger combination. Some did not work. Some I refused to use (nomachine). I can use my other Linux and android systems to VNC to any of my machines. Including my Raspberry Pi rack.I use Firefox for most of my browser needs. Including G mail and YouTube.On some systems I install Chrome. The real Chrome not the Chromium fork.There are other browser options.I download and install the current stable version of Libre Office.I turn off Bluetooth until I need it.I enable at least one hot corner. I also install Workspace Switcher. There are many options for Desklets and Applets.These option may not work for every system. YMMV
Wifi Hotspot Issue Wifi Hotspot Issueu/Thelost10mm_•4 days agoWifi Hotspot IssueSupport RequestIm on mint 22.3 kernel 6.14 Trying to make wifi hotspot connection from my laptop to my phone always got "Message recipient disconnected from message bus", Tried another wifi dongle if mint uses a single adapter as one uses only (connecting to network only) and same error happened, Tried kernel 6.8 nothing changes, Tried all gemini solutions but without any progress.Can anyone helps?
Can't change lightdm background Can't change lightdm backgroundu/Positive-Incident221•4 days agoCan't change lightdm backgroundSupport RequestI'm trying to change the lightdm background but it's not working. I went to/etc/lightdm/lightdm-gtk-greeter.conf.dand edited the99_linuxmint.conffile there to set the path to the background but nothing happened after restarting. Anybody know why it doesn't work?
How to install LM on a laptop with Debian and Windows 10 How to install LM on a laptop with Debian and Windows 10u/Gumaro-cat•1 day agoHow to install LM on a laptop with Debian and Windows 10I have a Dell laptop with a dual boot system (Windows and Debian 12). I want to install LM on the partition where Debian is installed. Do I need to delete the partition first? Which partitions do I need to delete, because I see there are several?I hope someone can help me.Thanks
Taking long time to load games Taking long time to load gamesu/FDGenesis•4 days agoTaking long time to load gamesHi, I'm using Mint for a while now (round about two weeks) and my PC takes a long time (60 seconds) to load a Game fron Stean, while it took only quite some seconds on Windows before. What am I doing wrong? Is this normal? Thanks in advance :)
My fav movie player and movies stutter on Mint 22.3 My fav movie player and movies stutter on Mint 22.3u/cippirimerlo•5 days agoMy fav movie player and movies stutter on Mint 22.3Houston we have a problem. Fast forward: fresh install of mint 22.3 on an old (I know, I know) laptop, Aspire ES1-512 V1.15 . Guess what? Almost all movie players, VLC, and my fav (Smplayer) can't play a movie without stuttering. This is driving me crazy because: Celluloid works fine, no stuttering. On my old, previous Mint, movies run perfectly. I turned off any windows and desktop effect, still no joy. I am reading that this movies stuttering is a common problem in 22.3. What can I do?
As of today, I am now a linux user. As of today, I am now a linux user.u/MisterFyre•14 days agoAs of today, I am now a linux user.Linux Mint IRL
New kernal update wrecked havoc New kernal update wrecked havocu/somnambulistferret•6 days agoNew kernal update wrecked havocDiscussionMy machine was running beautifully, then this latest kernel update happened and its been a debugging nightmare ever since. it started with severe compatibility issues with my older nvidia graphics card, its drivers, and the new kernel, but the more I try to test, debug, fix, the more issues im having, like corrupted hard drive and boot problems... im just digging myself deeper and deeper and trying not to panic lolJust wanted to vent. if I survive this, I may try another distro flavor. this experience was too stressful.UPDATE: Got everything sorted out. Seems like the update caused some break in the Intel IOMMU process. But by the time I had figured that out I had already corrupted my boot, broke 2 different kernels, and more headaches which I don't even have the proper vocabulary to accurately describe. But I also learned all about the virtual TTY tool, fsck, and other useful knowledge that makes me feel like I leveled up a bit as a linux user.
Decided to Dive Down the Rabbit Hole Decided to Dive Down the Rabbit Holeu/FeistyDay5172•1 day agoDecided to Dive Down the Rabbit HoleFluffWell, after doing a good Timeshift image, and also doing a full backup image using Foxclone, I decided to leap.I am installing the full KDE Plasma meta pkg in the Mint repos. Unfortunately, it appears the hamsters have been replaced by snails. As I am at only 47% and it is STILL claiming about 1 HOUR left.Damned hamsters just HAD to go on break. 😡🤬
GPU Fan Noise GPU Fan Noiseu/Wonderful-Resort7228•1 day agoGPU Fan NoiseSupport RequestHi Community, I am using linux mint for a bit while and its quite good expeirence but recently I am facing this GPU fan noise , it seems like GPU is processing too much data but I dont using so much application , what I just trying , using a virtual box ubuntu machine and recording the screen using OBS , and its tool much noisy I cant even bear, is there any solution? I have acer aspire 7 i5 12th gen 16G RAM and rtx 3050 gpu
Printer not showing Printer not showingu/adventurous_area_001•5 days agoPrinter not showingSupport RequestHello, me again.So, my printer isn't showing anywhere in my settings. Like, if I search for word printer in my main menu, nothing pops up. I had before troubles with my printer in sense that he would not print doublesided, or i needed to check if I used correct name for him.How can I solve this issue of not having esentially, printer settings, and furthermore, how do I enable double printing?My printer is HP, Laserjet.
The ultimate acid test - my luddite wife The ultimate acid test - my luddite wifeu/Front-Round2853•14 days agoThe ultimate acid test - my luddite wifeI love my wife dearly, and she is a much better human being than I am. BUT - she hates technology with a passion. And that is okay - I am 44, she is 47, and to tease her I love telling her 'Damn, I can tell you were born in the 70s'.Now, lately I have transitioned my laptop to Linux Mint, and the results have been nothing short of stellar. All my games run better on Mint than they did on Windows 10.So I got two older laptops of mine, installed mint, and gave them to my two boys. Obviously, they loved it too.And... Well, since I am the de facto admin of my family, and I have 0 patience for Microsoft nowadays, I thought, well, let's do my wife's laptop as well. As you can imagine - a much more delicate situation. She gets instantly angry if everything does not function as it always has.Last night, I gave her her laptop. The only change was her new password.And you know what happened? Absolutely no complaints. I had, of course, backed up her pictures/documents/downloads folder and transferred it over. She noticed no difference AT ALL (no passwords were lost - she keeps her passwords on post its in an envelope, so... Yeah).Let me tell you - if THAT is possible, Windows' days are numbered.
Bios update Bios updateu/intensehero•2 days agoBios updateDiscussionPeople uaing windows update bios, i havent seen bios updates in linux.What are the advantages of updating bios? Is there a need to do so?As always i am here to learn, thanks everyone.
Upgrading from Windows 11 to Mint, what a joy! Upgrading from Windows 11 to Mint, what a joy!u/Fa1con74•12 days agoUpgrading from Windows 11 to Mint, what a joy!Desktop Screenshot
Win7-like wallpapers Win7-like wallpapersu/Selinaru•28 days agoWin7-like wallpapers
Cursor style changes in games Cursor style changes in gamesu/Regular_Low8792•15 days agoCursor style changes in gamesSupport Request
Am proud of finally having it finished Am proud of finally having it finishedu/PaymentNeat6513•5 days agoAm proud of finally having it finishedGuideAm proud of finally having it finishedr/linux4noobs•5 days agoAm proud of finally having it finishedAfter months of work, I’ve finally finished my first Linux guide/cheat sheet: The Complete Linux Reference Guide.It’s made for beginners and intermediate users who want to feel confident using Linux, with over 150 practical commands and exercises that let you actually practice and build skills.I’m proud of it, and it’s ten bucks hosted on Gumroad, I hope it can help someone the way having a clear reference helped me. don't hesitate to leave a review of it so I can improve it even more.you can check it out here:https://aahchouch.cc/l/LinuxGuideCmds18upvotes·14comments
How do i make linux look like this. How do i make linux look like this.u/Affectionate_Ad_2215•14 days agoHow do i make linux look like this.SOLVED
help enabling wifi help enabling wifiu/sketchthefurry•5 days agohelp enabling wifiWifi Issuescan someone tell me how i enable wireless connections, please, thank you, its been five and a half hours of internet tutorials and not one helped
Ngl I missed mint. Ngl I missed mint.u/josue136868•5 days agoNgl I missed mint.Desktop Screenshot
System Pack & Flatpack System Pack & Flatpacku/Demo_MVP•5 days agoSystem Pack & FlatpackSupport RequestWhat is the difference between a system pack and a flat pack, and which is better?
Need help Need helpu/gluttonous_laughter•2 days agoNeed helpSupport Request
How do I use my compose key? How do I use my compose key?u/Legitimate-Record951•5 days agoHow do I use my compose key?Support RequestI miss being able to make an em dash. On Windows, it was Alt + some numpad sequence. On Android, I can hold down on a regular dash. As I understand things, the compose key is they way to go about it on Linux. No clue how to go about it, though! Can I get some pointers?
GNOME-TERMINAL not rendering bold text GNOME-TERMINAL not rendering bold textu/Patient_Band_4541•5 days agoGNOME-TERMINAL not rendering bold text
NFS between two Linux systems fails to mount NFS between two Linux systems fails to mountu/DrJMun•1 day agoNFS between two Linux systems fails to mountSOLVEDUsing NFS as a client using Linux Mint. After i reboot/restart my shared directory is not accessible. There is "lock" on the file icon. In order to make it accessible I have to do a "sudo mount -a". I thought the problem must be with my fstab entry, but if that were so my "mount -a" shouldn't work, right? Once I do the mount -a all is fine until the next reboot.My fstab entry:192.168.1.58:/media/jose/Plex/Movies /mnt/nfs_share nfs defaults 0 0I am sharing a directory from a Raspberry Pi running Ubuntu which is the server.I suppose I could just create a script to run at system startup, but that would just be a workaround.Suggestions?TIASystem:Kernel: 6.17.0-14-generic arch: x86_64 bits: 64 compiler: gcc v: 13.3.0 clocksource: tscDesktop: Cinnamon v: 6.6.7 tk: GTK v: 3.24.41 wm: Muffin v: 6.6.3 vt: 7 dm: LightDM v: 1.30.0Distro: Linux Mint 22.3 Zena base: Ubuntu 24.04 nobleMachine:Type: Desktop Mobo: ASRock model: Z97 Extreme4 serial: <superuser required>uuid: <superuser required> UEFI: American Megatrends v: C1.30 date: 05/23/2014CPU:Info: quad core model: Intel Core i5-4690K bits: 64 type: MCP smt: <unsupported> arch: Haswellrev: 3 cache: L1: 256 KiB L2: 1024 KiB L3: 6 MiBSpeed (MHz): avg: 3806 high: 3857 min/max: 800/3900 cores: 1: 3857 2: 3857 3: 3793 4: 3719bogomips: 27989Flags: avx avx2 ht lm nx pae sse sse2 sse3 sse4_1 sse4_2 ssse3 vmx
Keyboard occasionally doesn't work after waking from sleep (suspend) Keyboard occasionally doesn't work after waking from sleep (suspend)u/SpadinaAvenue•4 days agoKeyboard occasionally doesn't work after waking from sleep (suspend)Support RequestKeyboard is plugged directly into my PC, and the mouse is connected directly into my keyboard via USB. Sometimes, I wake my PC up from sleep (suspend) and the keyboard doesn't work. I can move my mouse around, but that's about it. RGB lights on the keyboard are ON, but it's not animating and are frozen in place.I've tried unplugging my keyboard and plugging it back in, but to no avail. But if I unplugged my mouse from my keyboard, and plugged it back in, nothing else works from that point. Even if I plugged my mouse directly into my PC, it still wouldn't work.The usual REISUB also has no effect. Only way out is a hard reset by holding down the power button.I've included myjournalctl -b -1output below starting from when the issue started happening, followed by my system info below that. I suspectusb usb1: root hub lost power or was resetis a related issue, but I don't know what caused it to lose power.Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: Freezing user space processes Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: Freezing user space processes completed (elapsed 0.001 seconds) Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: OOM killer disabled. Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: Freezing remaining freezable tasks Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: Freezing remaining freezable tasks completed (elapsed 0.001 seconds) Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: printk: Suspending console(s) (use no_console_suspend to debug) Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: serial 00:01: disabled Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: sd 3:0:0:0: [sdc] Synchronizing SCSI cache Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: sd 0:0:0:0: [sda] Synchronizing SCSI cache Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: ata1.00: Entering standby power mode Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: sd 2:0:0:0: [sdb] Synchronizing SCSI cache Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: ata3.00: Entering standby power mode Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: ata4.00: Entering standby power mode Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: pcieport 0000:00:1b.3: Intel SPT PCH root port ACS workaround enabled Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: pcieport 0000:00:1c.4: Intel SPT PCH root port ACS workaround enabled Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: pcieport 0000:00:1d.0: Intel SPT PCH root port ACS workaround enabled Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: ACPI: PM: Preparing to enter system sleep state S3 Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: ACPI: PM: Saving platform NVS memory Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: Disabling non-boot CPUs ... Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: smpboot: CPU 7 is now offline Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: smpboot: CPU 6 is now offline Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: smpboot: CPU 5 is now offline Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: smpboot: CPU 4 is now offline Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: smpboot: CPU 3 is now offline Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: smpboot: CPU 2 is now offline Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: smpboot: CPU 1 is now offline Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: ACPI: PM: Low-level resume complete Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: ACPI: PM: Restoring platform NVS memory Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: Enabling non-boot CPUs ... Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: smpboot: Booting Node 0 Processor 1 APIC 0x2 Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: CPU1 is up Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: smpboot: Booting Node 0 Processor 2 APIC 0x4 Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: CPU2 is up Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: smpboot: Booting Node 0 Processor 3 APIC 0x6 Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: CPU3 is up Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: smpboot: Booting Node 0 Processor 4 APIC 0x1 Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: CPU4 is up Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: smpboot: Booting Node 0 Processor 5 APIC 0x3 Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: CPU5 is up Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: smpboot: Booting Node 0 Processor 6 APIC 0x5 Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: CPU6 is up Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: smpboot: Booting Node 0 Processor 7 APIC 0x7 Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: CPU7 is up Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: ACPI: PM: Waking up from system sleep state S3 Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: pcieport 0000:00:1b.2: Intel SPT PCH root port ACS workaround enabled Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: pcieport 0000:00:1b.3: Intel SPT PCH root port ACS workaround enabled Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: pcieport 0000:00:1c.0: Intel SPT PCH root port ACS workaround enabled Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: pcieport 0000:00:1c.4: Intel SPT PCH root port ACS workaround enabled Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: pcieport 0000:00:1d.0: Intel SPT PCH root port ACS workaround enabled Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: xhci_hcd 0000:00:14.0: xHC error in resume, USBSTS 0x411, Reinit Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: usb usb1: root hub lost power or was reset Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: usb usb2: root hub lost power or was reset Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: xhci_hcd 0000:09:00.0: xHC error in resume, USBSTS 0x401, Reinit Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: usb usb3: root hub lost power or was reset Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: usb usb4: root hub lost power or was reset Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: serial 00:01: activated Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: usb 1-5: WARN: invalid context state for evaluate context command. Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: usb 1-5: reset full-speed USB device number 2 using xhci_hcd Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: ata4: SATA link up 6.0 Gbps (SStatus 133 SControl 300) Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: ata6: SATA link down (SStatus 4 SControl 300) Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: ata5: SATA link down (SStatus 4 SControl 300) Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: ata1: SATA link up 6.0 Gbps (SStatus 133 SControl 300) Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: ata2: SATA link down (SStatus 4 SControl 300) Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: sd 0:0:0:0: [sda] Starting disk Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: ata4.00: supports DRM functions and may not be fully accessible Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: ata1.00: configured for UDMA/133 Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: sd 3:0:0:0: [sdc] Starting disk Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: ata4.00: supports DRM functions and may not be fully accessible Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: ata4.00: configured for UDMA/133 Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: ahci 0000:00:17.0: port does not support device sleep Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: usb 1-6: WARN: invalid context state for evaluate context command. Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: usb 1-6: reset full-speed USB device number 3 using xhci_hcd Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: OOM killer enabled. Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: Restarting tasks ...  Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: pci_bus 0000:06: Allocating resources Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: pcieport 0000:05:00.0: Assigned bridge window [mem 0xef100000-0xef1fffff] to [bus 06-0a] cannot fit 0x200000 required for 0000:06:01.0 bridging to [bus 08] Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: pcieport 0000:06:01.0: bridge window [mem 0x00000000] to [bus 08] requires relaxed alignment rules Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: pcieport 0000:06:01.0: bridge window [mem 0x00100000-0x000fffff] to [bus 08] add_size 200000 add_align 100000 Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: pcieport 0000:05:00.0: Assigned bridge window [mem 0xef100000-0xef1fffff] to [bus 06-0a] cannot fit 0x200000 required for 0000:06:04.0 bridging to [bus 0a] Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: pcieport 0000:06:04.0: bridge window [mem 0x00000000] to [bus 0a] requires relaxed alignment rules Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: pcieport 0000:06:04.0: bridge window [mem 0x00100000-0x000fffff] to [bus 0a] add_size 200000 add_align 100000 Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: pcieport 0000:06:01.0: bridge window [mem size 0x00200000]: can't assign; no space Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: pcieport 0000:06:01.0: bridge window [mem size 0x00200000]: failed to assign Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: pcieport 0000:06:04.0: bridge window [mem size 0x00200000]: can't assign; no space Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: pcieport 0000:06:04.0: bridge window [mem size 0x00200000]: failed to assign Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: pcieport 0000:06:04.0: bridge window [mem size 0x00200000]: can't assign; no space Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: pcieport 0000:06:04.0: bridge window [mem size 0x00200000]: failed to assign Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: pcieport 0000:06:01.0: bridge window [mem size 0x00200000]: can't assign; no space Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: pcieport 0000:06:01.0: bridge window [mem size 0x00200000]: failed to assign Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: done. Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: random: crng reseeded on system resumption Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: PM: suspend exit Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: input: Corsair Corsair Gaming K70 LUX RGB Keyboard  Keyboard as /devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:14.0/usb1/1-6/1-6:1.0/0003:1B1C:1B33.0005/input/input23 Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd-resolved[976]: Clock change detected. Flushing caches. Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 acpid[1491]: client 1412[0:0] has disconnected Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 zed[1093]: Exiting Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd-sleep[9450]: System returned from sleep operation 'suspend'. Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: Started anacron.service - Run anacron jobs. Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: Starting fwupd-refresh.service - Refresh fwupd metadata and update motd... Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: Starting phpsessionclean.service - Clean php session files... Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: zfs-zed.service: Deactivated successfully. Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd-sleep[9556]: /dev/sda: Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd-sleep[9556]:  setting Advanced Power Management level to 0xfe (254) Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd-sleep[9556]:  APM_level        = 254 Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd-logind[1087]: Watching system buttons on /dev/input/event7 (Corsair Corsair Gaming K70 LUX RGB Keyboard  Keyboard) Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: input: Corsair Corsair Gaming K70 LUX RGB Keyboard  as /devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:14.0/usb1/1-6/1-6:1.0/0003:1B1C:1B33.0005/input/input24 Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: input: Corsair Corsair Gaming K70 LUX RGB Keyboard  as /devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:14.0/usb1/1-6/1-6:1.0/0003:1B1C:1B33.0005/input/input25 Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: hid-generic 0003:1B1C:1B33.0005: input,hiddev1,hidraw2: USB HID v1.11 Keyboard [Corsair Corsair Gaming K70 LUX RGB Keyboard ] on usb-0000:00:14.0-6/input0 Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 ckb-next-daemon[1050]: [I] graceful_suspend_resume: drivers_attached Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 ckb-next-daemon[1050]: [I] ckb1: USBDEVFS_GETDRIVER on interface 0 gave usbhid, reclaiming Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 ckb-next-daemon[1050]: [I] ckb1: Claiming 2 interfaces Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: zfs-zed.service: Scheduled restart job, restart counter is at 1. Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: Started zfs-zed.service - ZFS Event Daemon (zed). Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 acpid[1491]: input device has been disconnected, fd 22 Feb 07 18:34:41 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 touchegg[1089]: Warning: Error opening device /dev/input/event20 Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 anacron[9534]: Anacron 2.3 started on 2026-02-07 Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 anacron[9534]: Normal exit (0 jobs run) Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: anacron.service: Deactivated successfully. Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 zed[9640]: ZFS Event Daemon 2.2.2-0ubuntu9.4 (PID 9640) Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 zed[9640]: Processing events since eid=0 Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: fwupd-refresh.service: Deactivated successfully. Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: Finished fwupd-refresh.service - Refresh fwupd metadata and update motd. Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: phpsessionclean.service: Deactivated successfully. Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: Finished phpsessionclean.service - Clean php session files. Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: systemd-suspend.service: Deactivated successfully. Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: Finished systemd-suspend.service - System Suspend. Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: Stopped target sleep.target - Sleep. Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: Reached target suspend.target - Suspend. Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd-logind[1087]: Operation 'suspend' finished. Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 ModemManager[1255]: <msg> [sleep-monitor-systemd] system is resuming Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 NetworkManager[1219]: <info>  [1770507282.4270] manager: sleep: wake requested (sleeping: yes  enabled: yes) Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 NetworkManager[1219]: <info>  [1770507282.4271] device (enp3s0): state change: unmanaged -> unavailable (reason 'managed', sys-iface-state: 'external') Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 NetworkManager[1219]: <info>  [1770507282.4296] manager: NetworkManager state is now DISCONNECTED Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: Starting grub-common.service - Record successful boot for GRUB... Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: Starting nvidia-resume.service - NVIDIA system resume actions... Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: Stopped target suspend.target - Suspend. Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 suspend[9707]: nvidia-resume.service Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 logger[9707]: <13>Feb  7 18:34:42 suspend: nvidia-resume.service Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: nvidia-resume.service: Deactivated successfully. Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: Finished nvidia-resume.service - NVIDIA system resume actions. Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: grub-common.service: Deactivated successfully. Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: Finished grub-common.service - Record successful boot for GRUB. Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: Starting grub-initrd-fallback.service - GRUB failed boot detection... Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: grub-initrd-fallback.service: Deactivated successfully. Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: Finished grub-initrd-fallback.service - GRUB failed boot detection. Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 wireplumber[1647]: BlueZ system service is not available Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 fwupd[7307]: 23:34:42.834 FuPluginIntelMe      failed to get public key using /fpf/OemCred: invalid response group ID, not a response! Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 acpid[1491]: client connected from 1412[0:0] Feb 07 18:34:42 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 acpid[1491]: 1 client rule loaded Feb 07 18:34:43 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 org.cinnamon.ScreenSaver[9414]: AccountsService ready Feb 07 18:34:43 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 org.cinnamon.ScreenSaver[9414]: Successfully using logind Feb 07 18:34:43 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 NetworkManager[1219]: <info>  [1770507283.2703] device (enp3s0): carrier: link connected Feb 07 18:34:43 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 NetworkManager[1219]: <info>  [1770507283.2705] device (enp3s0): state change: unavailable -> disconnected (reason 'carrier-changed', sys-iface-state: 'managed') Feb 07 18:34:43 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: alx 0000:03:00.0 enp3s0: NIC Up: 1 Gbps Full Feb 07 18:34:43 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 NetworkManager[1219]: <info>  [1770507283.2711] policy: auto-activating connection 'Wired connection 1' (e7931ae9-b26a-3502-9d5e-46c388fe3f8b) Feb 07 18:34:43 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 NetworkManager[1219]: <info>  [1770507283.2714] device (enp3s0): Activation: starting connection 'Wired connection 1' (e7931ae9-b26a-3502-9d5e-46c388fe3f8b) Feb 07 18:34:43 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 NetworkManager[1219]: <info>  [1770507283.2715] device (enp3s0): state change: disconnected -> prepare (reason 'none', sys-iface-state: 'managed') Feb 07 18:34:43 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 NetworkManager[1219]: <info>  [1770507283.2717] manager: NetworkManager state is now CONNECTING Feb 07 18:34:43 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 NetworkManager[1219]: <info>  [1770507283.2719] device (enp3s0): state change: prepare -> config (reason 'none', sys-iface-state: 'managed') Feb 07 18:34:43 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 NetworkManager[1219]: <info>  [1770507283.2723] device (enp3s0): state change: config -> ip-config (reason 'none', sys-iface-state: 'managed') Feb 07 18:34:43 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 NetworkManager[1219]: <info>  [1770507283.2725] dhcp4 (enp3s0): activation: beginning transaction (timeout in 45 seconds) Feb 07 18:34:43 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 avahi-daemon[1048]: Joining mDNS multicast group on interface enp3s0.IPv6 with address fe80::299:5f3a:75f5:ead5. Feb 07 18:34:43 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 avahi-daemon[1048]: New relevant interface enp3s0.IPv6 for mDNS. Feb 07 18:34:43 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 avahi-daemon[1048]: Registering new address record for fe80::299:5f3a:75f5:ead5 on enp3s0.*. Feb 07 18:34:43 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: ata3: SATA link up 6.0 Gbps (SStatus 133 SControl 300) Feb 07 18:34:43 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: sd 2:0:0:0: [sdb] Starting disk Feb 07 18:34:43 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: ata3.00: configured for UDMA/100 Feb 07 18:34:45 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 NetworkManager[1219]: <info>  [1770507285.2785] dhcp4 (enp3s0): state changed new lease, address=192.168.0.20, acd pending Feb 07 18:34:45 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 NetworkManager[1219]: <info>  [1770507285.4118] dhcp4 (enp3s0): state changed new lease, address=192.168.0.20 Feb 07 18:34:45 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 NetworkManager[1219]: <info>  [1770507285.4120] policy: set 'Wired connection 1' (enp3s0) as default for IPv4 routing and DNS Feb 07 18:34:45 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 avahi-daemon[1048]: Joining mDNS multicast group on interface enp3s0.IPv4 with address 192.168.0.20. Feb 07 18:34:45 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 avahi-daemon[1048]: New relevant interface enp3s0.IPv4 for mDNS. Feb 07 18:34:45 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 avahi-daemon[1048]: Registering new address record for 192.168.0.20 on enp3s0.IPv4. Feb 07 18:34:45 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd-resolved[976]: enp3s0: Bus client set default route setting: yes Feb 07 18:34:45 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd-resolved[976]: enp3s0: Bus client set DNS server list to: 192.168.0.1 Feb 07 18:34:45 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 NetworkManager[1219]: <info>  [1770507285.4368] device (enp3s0): state change: ip-config -> ip-check (reason 'none', sys-iface-state: 'managed') Feb 07 18:34:45 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 NetworkManager[1219]: <info>  [1770507285.4382] device (enp3s0): state change: ip-check -> secondaries (reason 'none', sys-iface-state: 'managed') Feb 07 18:34:45 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 NetworkManager[1219]: <info>  [1770507285.4384] device (enp3s0): state change: secondaries -> activated (reason 'none', sys-iface-state: 'managed') Feb 07 18:34:45 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 NetworkManager[1219]: <info>  [1770507285.4387] manager: NetworkManager state is now CONNECTED_SITE Feb 07 18:34:45 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 NetworkManager[1219]: <info>  [1770507285.4389] device (enp3s0): Activation: successful, device activated. Feb 07 18:34:45 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 NetworkManager[1219]: <info>  [1770507285.4829] manager: NetworkManager state is now CONNECTED_GLOBAL Feb 07 18:34:46 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 ModemManager[1255]: <msg> [base-manager] couldn't check support for device '/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1b.2/0000:03:00.0': not supported by any plugin Feb 07 18:34:46 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 ckb-next-daemon[1050]: [I] Retry timeout after 5 seconds Feb 07 18:34:46 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 ckb-next-daemon[1050]: [E] usbclaim (usb_linux.c:334): Failed to claim interface 1: Device or resource busy Feb 07 18:34:46 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 ckb-next-daemon[1050]: [I] System has woken from sleep Feb 07 18:34:46 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 ckb-next-daemon[1050]: [E] os_usb_interrupt_out (via device_keyboard.c:36): Device or resource busy, res = 0xffffffff Feb 07 18:34:46 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 ckb-next-daemon[1050]: [I] Attempting reset... Feb 07 18:34:46 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: usb 1-6: usbfs: process 1057 (suspend) did not claim interface 1 before use Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: BUG: unable to handle page fault for address: 00000000000028a8 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: #PF: supervisor write access in kernel mode Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: #PF: error_code(0x0002) - not-present page Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: PGD 0 P4D 0  Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: Oops: Oops: 0002 [#1] PREEMPT SMP PTI Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: CPU: 5 UID: 0 PID: 1057 Comm: suspend Tainted: P           OE      6.14.0-37-generic #37~24.04.1-Ubuntu Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: Tainted: [P]=PROPRIETARY_MODULE, [O]=OOT_MODULE, [E]=UNSIGNED_MODULE Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: Hardware name: Gigabyte Technology Co., Ltd. Z170MX-Gaming 5/Z170MX-Gaming 5, BIOS F21 03/06/2017 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: RIP: 0010:_raw_spin_lock_irq+0x21/0x80 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: Code: 90 90 90 90 90 90 90 90 90 0f 1f 44 00 00 55 48 89 e5 53 48 89 fb fa 0f 1f 44 00 00 65 ff 05 7e 30 94 43 31 c0 ba 01 00 00 00 <f0> 0f b1 13 75 20 48 8b 5d f8 c9 31 c0 31 d2 31 c9 31 f6 31 ff 45 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: RSP: 0018:ffffd12cc0d17d78 EFLAGS: 00010046 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: RAX: 0000000000000000 RBX: 00000000000028a8 RCX: ffffffffc05530a0 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: RDX: 0000000000000001 RSI: 0000000000000000 RDI: 00000000000028a8 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: RBP: ffffd12cc0d17d80 R08: 0000000000000000 R09: 0000000000000000 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: R10: 0000000000000000 R11: 0000000000000000 R12: 00000000000028a8 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: R13: ffff88fd0df65000 R14: 0000000000400040 R15: ffff88fd0aaa2400 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: FS:  000072217b3cc6c0(0000) GS:ffff89002ec80000(0000) knlGS:0000000000000000 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: CS:  0010 DS: 0000 ES: 0000 CR0: 0000000080050033 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: CR2: 00000000000028a8 CR3: 0000000110b68006 CR4: 00000000003726f0 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: Call Trace: Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel:  <TASK> Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel:  hid_pre_reset+0x29/0x70 [usbhid] Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel:  usb_reset_device+0xe0/0x2e0 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel:  usbdev_do_ioctl+0xf6b/0x1850 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel:  ? __count_memcg_events+0xd3/0x1a0 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel:  ? count_memcg_events.constprop.0+0x2a/0x50 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel:  ? handle_mm_fault+0x22e/0x360 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel:  usbdev_ioctl+0xe/0x20 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel:  __x64_sys_ioctl+0xa4/0xe0 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel:  x64_sys_call+0x131e/0x2650 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel:  do_syscall_64+0x7e/0x170 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel:  entry_SYSCALL_64_after_hwframe+0x76/0x7e Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: RIP: 0033:0x72217b524e1d Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: Code: 04 25 28 00 00 00 48 89 45 c8 31 c0 48 8d 45 10 c7 45 b0 10 00 00 00 48 89 45 b8 48 8d 45 d0 48 89 45 c0 b8 10 00 00 00 0f 05 <89> c2 3d 00 f0 ff ff 77 1a 48 8b 45 c8 64 48 2b 04 25 28 00 00 00 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: RSP: 002b:000072217b3cbd70 EFLAGS: 00000246 ORIG_RAX: 0000000000000010 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: RAX: ffffffffffffffda RBX: 00005d35f8cfb778 RCX: 000072217b524e1d Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: RDX: 00000000fffffffb RSI: 0000000000005514 RDI: 0000000000000005 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: RBP: 000072217b3cbdc0 R08: 0000000000000000 R09: 0000000000000000 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: R10: 0000000000000000 R11: 0000000000000246 R12: 000072217b6046a8 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: R13: 000072217b3cbde0 R14: 0000000000010818 R15: 00005d35f8cda750 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel:  </TASK> Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: Modules linked in: snd_seq_dummy snd_hrtimer qrtr ip6t_REJECT nf_reject_ipv6 xt_hl ip6t_rt ipt_REJECT nf_reject_ipv4 xt_LOG nf_log_syslog nft_limit xt_limit xt_addrtype xt_tcpudp xt_conntrack nf_conntrack nf_defrag_ipv6 nf_defrag_ipv4 nft_compat nf_tables binfmt_misc zfs(PO) spl(O) nvidia_uvm(POE) nvidia_drm(POE) nvidia_modeset(POE) nvidia(POE) nls_iso8859_1 snd_soc_avs snd_soc_hda_codec snd_hda_ext_core snd_soc_core snd_hda_codec_realtek snd_compress intel_rapl_msr ac97_bus snd_hda_codec_generic snd_hda_codec_hdmi snd_pcm_dmaengine intel_rapl_common snd_hda_scodec_component snd_hda_intel snd_intel_dspcfg intel_tcc_cooling snd_intel_sdw_acpi x86_pkg_temp_thermal snd_hda_codec intel_powerclamp snd_hda_core snd_hwdep coretemp snd_pcm kvm_intel snd_seq_midi snd_seq_midi_event snd_rawmidi kvm snd_seq ee1004 mei_hdcp mei_pxp irqbypass snd_seq_device snd_timer i2c_i801 rapl drm_ttm_helper snd i2c_smbus ttm mei_me intel_wmi_thunderbolt intel_cstate soundcore intel_pmc_core mxm_wmi i2c_mux mei pmt_telemetry Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel:  pmt_class intel_vsec acpi_pad joydev input_leds mac_hid sch_fq_codel msr parport_pc ppdev lp parport efi_pstore nfnetlink dmi_sysfs ip_tables x_tables autofs4 btrfs blake2b_generic xor raid6_pq dm_mirror dm_region_hash dm_log polyval_clmulni polyval_generic ghash_clmulni_intel sha256_ssse3 sha1_ssse3 ahci alx libahci mdio video wmi hid_generic usbhid hid aesni_intel crypto_simd cryptd Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: CR2: 00000000000028a8 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: ---[ end trace 0000000000000000 ]--- Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: RIP: 0010:_raw_spin_lock_irq+0x21/0x80 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: Code: 90 90 90 90 90 90 90 90 90 0f 1f 44 00 00 55 48 89 e5 53 48 89 fb fa 0f 1f 44 00 00 65 ff 05 7e 30 94 43 31 c0 ba 01 00 00 00 <f0> 0f b1 13 75 20 48 8b 5d f8 c9 31 c0 31 d2 31 c9 31 f6 31 ff 45 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: RSP: 0018:ffffd12cc0d17d78 EFLAGS: 00010046 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: RAX: 0000000000000000 RBX: 00000000000028a8 RCX: ffffffffc05530a0 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: RDX: 0000000000000001 RSI: 0000000000000000 RDI: 00000000000028a8 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: RBP: ffffd12cc0d17d80 R08: 0000000000000000 R09: 0000000000000000 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: R10: 0000000000000000 R11: 0000000000000000 R12: 00000000000028a8 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: R13: ffff88fd0df65000 R14: 0000000000400040 R15: ffff88fd0aaa2400 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: FS:  000072217b3cc6c0(0000) GS:ffff89002ec80000(0000) knlGS:0000000000000000 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: CS:  0010 DS: 0000 ES: 0000 CR0: 0000000080050033 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: CR2: 00000000000028a8 CR3: 0000000110b68006 CR4: 00000000003726f0 Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: note: suspend[1057] exited with irqs disabled Feb 07 18:34:47 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: note: suspend[1057] exited with preempt_count 1 Feb 07 18:34:48 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: NetworkManager-dispatcher.service: Deactivated successfully. Feb 07 18:35:01 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 CRON[9785]: pam_unix(cron:session): session opened for user root(uid=0) by root(uid=0) Feb 07 18:35:01 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 CRON[9786]: (root) CMD ([ -x /etc/init.d/anacron ] && if [ ! -d /run/systemd/system ]; then /usr/sbin/invoke-rc.d anacron start >/dev/null; fi) Feb 07 18:35:01 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 CRON[9785]: pam_unix(cron:session): session closed for user root Feb 07 18:35:01 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 CRON[9787]: pam_unix(cron:session): session opened for user root(uid=0) by root(uid=0) Feb 07 18:35:01 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 CRON[9788]: (root) CMD ([ -x /etc/init.d/anacron ] && if [ ! -d /run/systemd/system ]; then /usr/sbin/invoke-rc.d anacron start >/dev/null; fi) Feb 07 18:35:01 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 CRON[9787]: pam_unix(cron:session): session closed for user root Feb 07 18:35:01 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 CRON[9789]: pam_unix(cron:session): session opened for user root(uid=0) by root(uid=0) Feb 07 18:35:01 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 CRON[9790]: (root) CMD ([ -x /etc/init.d/anacron ] && if [ ! -d /run/systemd/system ]; then /usr/sbin/invoke-rc.d anacron start >/dev/null; fi) Feb 07 18:35:01 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 CRON[9789]: pam_unix(cron:session): session closed for user root Feb 07 18:35:05 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: usb 1-5: USB disconnect, device number 2 Feb 07 18:35:05 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 acpid[1491]: input device has been disconnected, fd 17 Feb 07 18:35:14 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: usb 1-5: new full-speed USB device number 4 using xhci_hcd Feb 07 18:35:14 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: usb 1-5: New USB device found, idVendor=046d, idProduct=c332, bcdDevice= 3.02 Feb 07 18:35:14 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: usb 1-5: New USB device strings: Mfr=1, Product=2, SerialNumber=3 Feb 07 18:35:14 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: usb 1-5: Product: Gaming Mouse G502 Feb 07 18:35:14 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: usb 1-5: Manufacturer: Logitech Feb 07 18:35:14 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: usb 1-5: SerialNumber: 0B8837673235 Feb 07 18:35:14 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: input: Logitech Gaming Mouse G502 as /devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:14.0/usb1/1-5/1-5:1.0/0003:046D:C332.0006/input/input26 Feb 07 18:35:14 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: hid-generic 0003:046D:C332.0006: input,hidraw0: USB HID v1.11 Mouse [Logitech Gaming Mouse G502] on usb-0000:00:14.0-5/input0 Feb 07 18:35:14 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: input: Logitech Gaming Mouse G502 Keyboard as /devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:14.0/usb1/1-5/1-5:1.1/0003:046D:C332.0007/input/input27 Feb 07 18:35:14 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: hid-generic 0003:046D:C332.0007: input,hiddev0,hidraw1: USB HID v1.11 Keyboard [Logitech Gaming Mouse G502] on usb-0000:00:14.0-5/input1 Feb 07 18:35:14 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 mtp-probe[9805]: checking bus 1, device 4: "/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:14.0/usb1/1-5" Feb 07 18:35:14 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 mtp-probe[9805]: bus: 1, device: 4 was not an MTP device Feb 07 18:35:14 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd-logind[1087]: Watching system buttons on /dev/input/event4 (Logitech Gaming Mouse G502 Keyboard) Feb 07 18:35:14 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 mtp-probe[9820]: checking bus 1, device 4: "/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:14.0/usb1/1-5" Feb 07 18:35:14 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 mtp-probe[9820]: bus: 1, device: 4 was not an MTP device Feb 07 18:35:16 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: usbhid 1-6:1.1: can't add hid device: -71 Feb 07 18:35:16 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: usb 1-6: USB disconnect, device number 3 Feb 07 18:35:16 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 kernel: usbhid 1-6:1.1: probe with driver usbhid failed with error -71 Feb 07 18:35:26 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 cinnamon-screensaver-pam-helper[9727]: pam_unix(cinnamon-screensaver:auth): conversation failed Feb 07 18:35:26 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 cinnamon-screensaver-pam-helper[9727]: pam_unix(cinnamon-screensaver:auth): auth could not identify password for [marchmint] Feb 07 18:36:59 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 cinnamon-screensaver-pam-helper[9827]: pam_unix(cinnamon-screensaver:auth): conversation failed Feb 07 18:36:59 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 cinnamon-screensaver-pam-helper[9827]: pam_unix(cinnamon-screensaver:auth): auth could not identify password for [marchmint] Feb 07 18:38:33 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd-logind[1087]: Power key pressed short. Feb 07 18:39:01 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd-logind[1087]: Power key pressed short. Feb 07 18:39:01 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: Starting phpsessionclean.service - Clean php session files... Feb 07 18:39:01 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: phpsessionclean.service: Deactivated successfully. Feb 07 18:39:01 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 systemd[1]: Finished phpsessionclean.service - Clean php session files. Feb 07 18:39:01 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 CRON[9905]: pam_unix(cron:session): session opened for user root(uid=0) by root(uid=0) Feb 07 18:39:01 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 CRON[9906]: (root) CMD (  [ -x /usr/lib/php/sessionclean ] && if [ ! -d /run/systemd/system ]; then /usr/lib/php/sessionclean; fi) Feb 07 18:39:01 marchmint-Z170MX-Gaming-5 CRON[9905]: pam_unix(cron:session): session closed for user root
Linux Mint 22.3 Zena Linux Mint 22.3 Zenau/0bWAN-1•27 days agoLinux Mint 22.3 ZenaAnnouncementGreetings to all,I am a long-time Linux Mint user. Currently retired after 45+ years in IT, I feel I have a fair working knowledge. I wanted to post my experience upgrading to 22.3—Zena. I first ran Timeshift just in case something were to go wrong. This took some time, as I have a lot of data on three internal drives. I normally glance at the clock to get a grasp on the time the upgrade takes. The upgrade began D/L files at 7:22 PM central time. At 7:37 PM, the notice of a SUCCESSFUL UPGRADE FINISHED—PLEASE REBOOT.The accomplishments of the Linux Mint team are nothing short of a miracle. If a user had told me they had upgraded ANY Linux distribution in such a short time, I would have questioned their integrity.  Absolutely mind-boggling. So far everything appears to have remained intact with no adverse behavior or instability whatsoever. The redesigned “immutable base core system” topology is no longer a dream; it's here in all of its glory.Living on a modest income is challenging. I wish I had the financial means to donate Linux Mint a million dollars every year. Although that's undoable at my status, I'm keenly aware that when many donate what they can, every penny pushes development forward. At the end of the day, if we all contribute, the Linux Mint team will undoubtedly continue to pump out revolutionary, industry-changing solutions.I cannot adequately express my gratitude to the entire Linux Mint staff for all their work. Your accomplishments over the decades have been and continue to be in the top 5% of their profession. In my opinion, this team is an example to the world of what can be accomplished when a talented, dedicated team pulls together. Linux Mint has become an unstoppable force, setting new standards industry-wide.Thank you, thank you, thank you!
Alguém sabe instalar/iniciar um programa? Alguém sabe instalar/iniciar um programa?u/Ruan_Pablo366•1 day agoAlguém sabe instalar/iniciar um programa?Support RequestMudei para o linux mint recentemente e não estou conseguindo iniciar alguns programas direto do gerenciador de arquivos, desde já obrigado!
Sites for gaming Sites for gamingu/Responsible-Scene666•6 days agoSites for gamingDiscussionI wanna play some games with my system.Linux Mint 21.3 CinnamonIntel Core I3-2310M2x2GB DDR3 RAM 1333MT/s250GB HDD1GB integrated intel HD 3000 VRAMMy specs are kind of low, even maybe more than low especially with non-native linux games. Even 90s games feel sluggish if not natively run in Linux like FAllout 1 and 2.I want to play games and even better when supported on linux like stardew valley. I want to play emulator games such as Gameboy Advance.How do I do that? Yes sailing the seven seas is an option ;)TL;DR, I need a source; a website where I can find games I can try Lutris and wine with or are sites I used back when I used with windows 7 like steamrip and steamunlocked ok?UPDATE! installed wine and Lutris and use both for games. Mainly uses Lutris for gaming, I can now play Fallout 1, and 2, Stardew, and Pokemon Emerald ROM.
2716 hours left !! Whats wrong 2716 hours left !! Whats wrongu/Independent_Kale_900•5 days ago2716 hours left !! Whats wrong
Cannot install Mint alongside Windows Cannot install Mint alongside Windowsu/satudua_12•4 days agoCannot install Mint alongside WindowsThinkpad t470 running Windows 10 and I have created a separate partition. Boot latest Linux Mint but doesn’t give the option installing alongside Windows. The only options are erease the disk or giving me a manual option to create a partition. I like Mint but I’m open to other distro that give me the option of dual booting.
I have a 4GB Ram 1TB SSD laptop that's functonal I have a 4GB Ram 1TB SSD laptop that's functonalu/Puzzleheaded-Rich263•5 days agoI have a 4GB Ram 1TB SSD laptop that's functonalIt has slowed to death since the latest Windows update.Will Linux Mint run faster in it?
File Copy with External USB drives File Copy with External USB drivesu/Least_Gain5147•5 days agoFile Copy with External USB drivesI have a USB dock attached to my Lenovo P50 running Linuxmint 22.3 and kernel 6.17. I have always had trouble copying large files (video and audio files mostly) from the laptop to these two drives (both SSD, a 1TB and a 500GB). But even worse is copying between them. I was hoping that moving from kernel 6.8 to 6.14 to 6.17 would show some improvement, but nemo constantly throws the "Wait"/"Force Quit" error prompt. It doesn't matter whether I drag-n-drop, use cp, or rsync. The first one or two files will copy, then it crashes.I've attached the same USB dock to another Lenovo P50 running Win11 and it doesn't crash like that. Same performance but not as reliable on Linuxmint. Is that more likely an issue with nemo and rsync, or the Linux kernel?
Will Zena 22.3 XFCE fit on a DVD for installation? Will Zena 22.3 XFCE fit on a DVD for installation?u/ttggzz•1 day agoWill Zena 22.3 XFCE fit on a DVD for installation?Install HelpHello, I can't seem to find that info. I have a pile of DVD's, not so sure about a USB stick thanks
Should i move to linux? Should i move to linux?u/Ok-Section6827•4 days agoShould i move to linux?Should i move to linux?r/linuxquestions•4 days agoShould i move to linux?should i move to linux from windows 11? what linux should i useive tried ubuntu but my drivers are incompatible. im on windows 11edit: thanks for everyones help! im using lm now :)38comments
Does Mint do this? Does Mint do this?u/Big_Flow8975•5 days agoDoes Mint do this?DiscussionHi. I'm planning to install or maybe at least try a dual boot system (win & linux) for the first time and I choose Mint. So, what I'm concern about is, does Mint mess up my storage drive or Windows files? probably making it corrupt or inaccessible while using the Mint OS? Or does it delete files automatically if it can't open a specific file?Thanks for your help.
New to Mint! New to Mint!u/Chooch782•5 days agoNew to Mint!Started using Linux Rasbianfor the first time last Saturday on my Raspberry Pi. Loved Linux so much I downloaded Linux Mint on a spare PC I had this morning! I am loving it! Any tips? What are your favorite apps?
HELP REISUB ISN'T WORKING HELP REISUB ISN'T WORKINGu/Just_a_god_damn_fox•5 days agoHELP REISUB ISN'T WORKINGSOLVEDI wanted to load a backup to fix a flicker issue and something went wrong now I need to reboot and reisub isn't working
SpotX-Bash (adblocking for Spotify) SpotX-Bash (adblocking for Spotify)u/jnelsoninjax•5 days agoSpotX-Bash (adblocking for Spotify)Support RequestI installed SpotX-Bash and patched Spotify to remove all the ads. Now the only downside is that the GUI is messed up—I can’t see my playlists. I can still play them, but I can’t see the titles. I checked all the documentation listed on the SpotX GitHub page, and this issue isn’t mentioned at all. Has anyone used it and/or have any ideas about what might be causing the problem?
Problems with updating Problems with updatingu/4rv1t•1 day agoProblems with updatingSOLVEDGood evening, I returned to my setup today after a few days on vacation and found this. Obviously my internet is fine.
Linux freezes on boot without nomodeset Linux freezes on boot without nomodesetu/AbsurdFretboard•1 day agoLinux freezes on boot without nomodesetSupport RequestI updated everything through update manager and looked for additional drivers via driver manager, which says that aren't any. Still, without replacing quick splash with nomodeset on every boot, it freezes right after the logo, even before the login screen.Did I miss something, is it incompatible hardware?I use a Gigabyte B550 Eagle Motherboard and a AMD Ryzen 5 5500 GT CPU with integrated Radeon Graphics.
Finger Print Scanner Problem Finger Print Scanner Problemu/Pewwds•1 day agoFinger Print Scanner ProblemSOLVEDI was having problems with fingerprint scanner.The issue was caused by the way I was placing my finger on the sensor. I was tapping it during registration, but the sensor requires a gentle downward swipe. Once I swiped my finger properly from top to bottom, it registered correctly.
Linux Installed!!! Linux Installed!!!u/lujo1925•13 days agoLinux Installed!!!
Storage fills up faster than windows is this a virus? Storage fills up faster than windows is this a virus?u/CourageNo1991•4 days agoStorage fills up faster than windows is this a virus?I’m new till my next event but it seems like whenever I install apps or just browse the web the storage fills up 10 times faster than a does on windows is this normal and is this a virus? And no, I don’t have time shift on.
Graphic Issues when lauching a game. Graphic Issues when lauching a game.u/Rei_Supremo_Maldito•5 days agoGraphic Issues when lauching a game.Hello ! I migrated to Linux Mint from Windows 10. When I launch Silksong and start to play, the screen freezes at the middle (some graphic lines as on old TV) when I move or jump. I never had this trouble with Windows 10. Do you know why this happens ?Thanks and have a great day !All the information that might be useful:-I'm on the resolution mode 1680*1050 for scaling reasons with my TV screen.-I download steam via its website (steam .deb)-I imported my game files from Windows, and they are stocked on a pendrive configurated on ext4 and, via the terminal, configurated as a system disk (for permission reasons).-When I launch the game, that's a steam UI "Acess to Steam fonctionalities while playing" that bugges, as it wanted to desapear from the screen but was blocked. That phenomenon only stands for ~2 seconds.
I'm digging the sleek look of Zena I'm digging the sleek look of Zenau/cacotadeluxe•1 mo. agoI'm digging the sleek look of ZenaDesktop Screenshot
Im not a fan of the new look, is there a way to get back my simple icons, and specifically lose the wordy discriptions of what the icon does. This looks like Im still in the tutorial. Im not a fan of the new look, is there a way to get back my simple icons, and specifically lose the wordy discriptions of what the icon does. This looks like Im still in the tutorial.u/spine_iv•25 days agoIm not a fan of the new look, is there a way to get back my simple icons, and specifically lose the wordy discriptions of what the icon does. This looks like Im still in the tutorial.SOLVED
Secureboot during Mint installation Secureboot during Mint installationu/Kitfox88•5 days agoSecureboot during Mint installationSOLVEDHello, just hoping to swap to Mint from Windows 11 but I'm running into a snag during installation. I enter a password for secure boot and continue as normal, but once I restart after the installation I encounter a screen asking me to perform MOK management, and there's no entry in the installation guide about this. Do I just choose the Continue Boot option? I'm not sure where in the directory structures that enroll key/hash from disk the proper file would be. When a 'enter password' field comes up I seem totally unable to enter any characters for it either. I'd like to keep secureboot on just in case I someday wish to play a game requiring it like Battlefield 6, so I'm hoping there's an answer here that isn't just 'turn off secureboot'.
my pc my pcu/XylanaxAverii•26 days agomy pcDesktop Screenshot
Wifi Wifiu/Clingonboy•5 days agoWifiThe eternal Wi-Fi problem. If they solved this problem, Linux would be more popular, because distributions with the same 6.12 kernel, one or rather several, connect to Wi-Fi without problems. Some connect, but occasionally it drops.How frustrating! I'm just writing to express my feelings. To solve this, I asked Claude ChatGPT and Gemini.
Hi! I am brand new to linux (when i say brand new i mean i managed to get Mint running a few days ago) and im just here looking for help/suggestions/support. More details in body. Hi! I am brand new to linux (when i say brand new i mean i managed to get Mint running a few days ago) and im just here looking for help/suggestions/support. More details in body.u/HatAppropriate1460•5 days agoHi! I am brand new to linux (when i say brand new i mean i managed to get Mint running a few days ago) and im just here looking for help/suggestions/support. More details in body.Ok, so my device is a old Acer Chromebook R11, weak as can be, Celeron N3060 and 4gb ram. I also only has 32gb eMMC. I want to use this thing a media streaming device (like you'd use an ipad) and for low end gaming (think stardew valley level of requirements, as well as emulation through retroarch). Would a 128gb sd card be good enough for this? Im already low on IO (1x USB 3.0, 1x USB 2.0, HDMI, Aux, and a SD card slot. The reason i want to use this device is becuase it has really good battery, i move around a lot for school etc so im often not near a power source. Also, any guides on how to optimise for the best and smoothest experience on this thing? Sometimes youtube opens really slow.tldr:1)Would a 128gb sd card be enough for low end gaming/ media streaming2)How to optimise Mint for a super low end system
HELP !!! HELP !!!u/a_404404•1 day agoHELP !!!Hi, so I'll keep it simple. I decided to install Linux Mint alongside my Windows (Tiny 11). I wanted to experiment with Wi-Fi using BetterCap, but I realized I didn't have a wlan0. Yet I connected to my Wi-Fi network without any problems. Linux works perfectly, but I don't understand why I don't have wlan0. I only have wlp2s0 or lo, so I'm a bit confused. I've done a lot of research but haven't found anything... If anyone knows why, thanks in advance!
Minty 1.0 is live on my repo, how would you guys feel about color-matching Applications menu icons? Minty 1.0 is live on my repo, how would you guys feel about color-matching Applications menu icons?u/tn3tenba•23 days agoMinty 1.0 is live on my repo, how would you guys feel about color-matching Applications menu icons?#LinuxMintThings
Cinnamon 6.6.7 quirks Cinnamon 6.6.7 quirksu/pkusensei•1 day agoCinnamon 6.6.7 quirksDiscussionWell I can't really pinpoint it on Cinnamon 6.6.7 because a sleuth of updates (session manager and stuff) were pushed on the same day. After restart pressing super/win key does not bring up Cinnamenu until ~30s later. Same with shutdown menu/ctrl-alt-end, pressing anything there yields no response, until quite a few seconds later. Then suspend takes a long time to put computer to sleep and waking up never succeeds. I've tried it on both kernels 6.17 and 6.14, and the bug persists.I have since reverted back to 6.6.6 (and kernel 6.14. Timeshift ftw). I sure wish some fix come soon.
Copy/Paste and file transfer issue  between host and Linux mint VM Copy/Paste and file transfer issue  between host and Linux mint VMu/Great-Pay-9545•2 days agoCopy/Paste and file transfer issue  between host and Linux mint VMCopy/Paste and file transfer issue  between host and VMr/vmware•2 days agoCopy/Paste and file transfer issue  between host and VMHello I recently downloaded Linux Mint 22.3 Xcfe on  Windows 11 25H2 Vmware Workstation pro (ver. 25.0.0.24995812) and I am struggling to make the copy/paste between the Vm and host work. I downloaded vmware tools on the guest os and confirmed that the service is working. I also followed everything in this articlehttps://woshub.com/enable-copy-paste-vmware-vm/but to no avail. Has somebody encountered this issue and is there a fix?4upvotes·6comments
Recommendation for a screenshot program that just takes a screenshot and saves it without a pop-up? Recommendation for a screenshot program that just takes a screenshot and saves it without a pop-up?u/Novel_Pin_5313•5 days agoRecommendation for a screenshot program that just takes a screenshot and saves it without a pop-up?Support RequestI only ever take one type of screenshot (whole screen), and the pop-up that every app I find uses is just distracting for me, especially for gaming. In most places, I think taking a single screen shot and not asking for confirmation is the norm, so i'm sure i'm missing something obvious.Any help is appreciated.
KDE plasma with Mint? KDE plasma with Mint?u/cheekylittleduck•5 days agoKDE plasma with Mint?Hi there. New to Linux. I installed mint cinnamon on numerous recommendation from Linux subreddits. Turns out touch screen and the standard zoom features on my touchpad didn’t work correctly because cinnamon uses X11. I switched to KDE plasma that uses Mint. Are there any issues here? As far as I understand the distribution basically doesn’t matter?
Whats the best icon pack ? Whats the best icon pack ?u/Good-Reveal6779•23 days agoWhats the best icon pack ?Discussion
Linux made me forget what used to a standard way to fix problems Linux made me forget what used to a standard way to fix problemsu/Frankmc2•21 days agoLinux made me forget what used to a standard way to fix problemsFluffI have been using personal computers since the 1980's and have worked in IT, one of my top 10 ways to fix a problem after trying a few things has been rebooting or "turning it off and on again". At least it was what I did before using Linux.Today Stardew Valley would not launch, it would try and stop. I tried the basic stuff like removing SMAPI, reinstalling, etc... and then went to Google when nothing worked. Saw someone suggest a reboot for something similar so I did that and it worked.I'm so unused to rebooting to fix stuff anymore that it completely slipped my mind to try it before googling.
Lenovo LOQ (RTX 3050 / Ryzen 5 7235HS) – Linux Mint Compatibility & Hardware Safety Lenovo LOQ (RTX 3050 / Ryzen 5 7235HS) – Linux Mint Compatibility & Hardware Safetyu/AdUnlucky4003•5 days agoLenovo LOQ (RTX 3050 / Ryzen 5 7235HS) – Linux Mint Compatibility & Hardware SafetyHello everyone,I am using aLenovo LOQ laptopwithRTX 3050,24 GB RAM, and aRyzen 5 7235HSprocessor. The device originally came asFreeDOS, and I have been usingWindows 10for a while. In the past, I also usedLinux Minton an older computer and was very satisfied with it — especially with LibreOffice, system stability, and the overall development environment.Recently, I installedLinux Mint on this Lenovo LOQ and used it for about one week. However, before fully committing to it as my main operating system, I returned to Windows because I have some hardware-related concerns.I use this laptop for bothschool and professional work:AdvancedExcelusageBanking systemsdevelopmentPythondevelopmentWhy Linux?In today’s world, I believe many operating systems are increasingly designed aroundtelemetry and user data collection. I am no longer comfortable with how much data is collected during daily computer usage. As someone who has been actively using computers since 2008, I do not feel safe anymore in terms ofdata privacy or system security, especially on Windows. For this reason, I am seriously considering switching to Linux.My main concernSince this is arelatively modern system, I would like to be sure about the following points before making the switch permanent:CanLinux Mintcause anyphysical damageto my hardware?Are there any risks related toNVIDIA RTX 3050 drivers, such as improper power management, fan control issues, or unintended overclocking?Could there be any issues withUSB power controllers, motherboard power delivery, or potential overcurrent situations?RegardingSSD read/write cycles, could poor optimization lead to excessive wear over time?In short:Is Linux Mint safe for this device, or is there any realistic risk of hardware damage?I am not asking about Live USB testing, but aboutdirect installation and daily usage.Any feedback from users with similar hardware or long-term Linux experience would be greatly appreciated.Thank you in advance.
Today's the day I use mint. Today's the day I use mint.u/rabisav•6 days agoToday's the day I use mint.DiscussionI built a new PC back in August (just before the price jump in RAM)and tried to install Mint. Trying to troubleshoot driver updates and learn Mint at the same time was a mistake. So installed W11 just to get everything updated and working. Now is the time for change. I choose Mint as it seems one of the more "windows like" experience I was wondering what are some "must have" apps as a Linux user. Like I really love Revo Uninsaller does that work on Linux or is removing files a better experience that type of software isn't required. Is the software that runs Steam games built into Steam or is it a separate download. Just a noob looking for some hints and tips. Thanks..
WIFI problem on my linux mint xfce WIFI problem on my linux mint xfceu/ilovepuppies9999•2 days agoWIFI problem on my linux mint xfceSOLVED
Switched permanently to Linux Mint after getting tired of Windows 11. Switched permanently to Linux Mint after getting tired of Windows 11.u/VisualGarlic478•26 days agoSwitched permanently to Linux Mint after getting tired of Windows 11.Desktop Screenshot
Linux Mint randomly stops listening to some mouse clicks Linux Mint randomly stops listening to some mouse clicksu/daedalususedperl•5 days agoLinux Mint randomly stops listening to some mouse clicksSupport RequestI don't know how to diagnose this or even describe it accurately, please be patient. This is Linux Mint 22.1 XiaA little time after starting my computer, the mouse randomly stops working. EG if I have Firefox and Thunderbird open, clicking on Thunderbird won't register, unless it is over the firefox window when it clicks "through" thunderbird and clicks on firefox. Even in Firefox not all the clicks work: clicking on videos does not start them for example, or middle click to open a link in a new tab does not work (but right click -> new tab works fine). The keyboard still works though, I can alt+tab to other windows (but clicking on them still doesn't work)The issue also occurs with cinnamenu: If I open it in this glitchy state it won't close if I click away but it closes with the super key shortcutI don't know what triggers this, it happens at random. So far the only fix that works isctrl+alt+F3thensudo systemctl restart lightdm. This works but it is temporary and at some point the issue resumes. I have tried searching for similar issues and someone suggested turning off the trackpad (I am on a desktop though, not a laptop) but that fix hasn't helped. If there is any diagnostic information I can post please tell me.
Zinnia Momentum MT100 Digital tablet orientation problems Zinnia Momentum MT100 Digital tablet orientation problemsu/Such-Employer-2564•5 days agoZinnia Momentum MT100 Digital tablet orientation problemsSupport RequestWhen I type "xinput map-to-output 12 eDP-1" in the terminal, it locks my tablet stylus to my laptop screeen "eDP-1" (I have to monitors, one of them is connected via HDMI cable) BUT the X and Y axis INVERT, bottom left is up right...Then, I type "xinput set-prop 12 "Coordinate Transformation Matrix" 0 -1 1 1 0 0 0 0 1" To invert my axis back to normal, but, when they are inverted properly MY MOUSE MOVES AROUND BOTH MY HDMI AND eDP-1 SCREEN PORTS, UNDOING THE "xinput map-to-output 12 eDP-1" COMMAND I JUST TYPEDi don't know what to do anymore, It's been 3 days of searching...
Should I worry about this Trojan on Linux Mint? Should I worry about this Trojan on Linux Mint?u/AdditionalDrag8996•3 days agoShould I worry about this Trojan on Linux Mint?I received an email from MalwareBytes about a fake PDF that installs a Trojan:"Cybercriminals behind a campaigndubbed DEAD#VAXare taking phishing one step further by delivering malware inside virtual hard disks that pretend to be ordinary PDF documents. Open the wrong “invoice” or “purchase order” and you won’t see a document at all. Instead, Windows mounts a virtual drive that quietly installsAsyncRAT, a backdoor Trojan that allows attackers to remotely monitor and control your computer."Could this happen on Linux Mint?
Back to Linux after several years... I forgot how much of a headache it *can* be sometimes. NVidia help, anyone? Back to Linux after several years... I forgot how much of a headache it *can* be sometimes. NVidia help, anyone?u/Pixelsummoner•5 days agoBack to Linux after several years... I forgot how much of a headache it *can* be sometimes. NVidia help, anyone?SOLVEDSkipping the story, I'm on a fresh LMDE 7 install and if I try to install the proprietary NVidia drivers (just via apt install, not trying to get the bleeding edge newest stuff), my HDMI external monitor just stops working and the system switches to the onboard Intel GPU as primary card. Leaving it on nouveau, the system uses my RTX as a primary card and everything works, but that's leaving a lot of the performance on the table.Anyone has any advice on this?
Could never be our Mint Could never be our Mintu/LicenseToPost•19 days agoCould never be our MintFluff
Could recommend good camera and voice note app? Could recommend good camera and voice note app?u/henry3174•2 days agoCould recommend good camera and voice note app?I downloaded some apps but they work awfully, does anyone know good recommendations?
My Mint Setup from a 2012 Computer My Mint Setup from a 2012 Computeru/schrojo1•26 days agoMy Mint Setup from a 2012 Computer
first time ricing first time ricingu/a_yr0n•5 days agofirst time ricing
Made a new Linux Wallpaper!! Made a new Linux Wallpaper!!u/ZERO_ARTE02•8 days agoMade a new Linux Wallpaper!!#LinuxMintThings
artist pro 15.6 v2 issues on linux mint 22.3 artist pro 15.6 v2 issues on linux mint 22.3u/floor_mayonnaise•5 days agoartist pro 15.6 v2 issues on linux mint 22.3Graphics Driversartist pro 15.6 v2 issues on linux mint 22.3r/XPpen•5 days agoartist pro 15.6 v2 issues on linux mint 22.3I am making another post because I need more help with this.I recently got my XP-pen tablet and I am pretty frustrated because so far it hasn't been working with my Linux distro. I have seen this appears to be a common issue which is frustrating and I haven't really found any answers.My problem is that my pen and cursor don't align when using basically any drivers. I've tried the official XP-pen debian driver and it was not working even when I used the tool to fix it which annoyed me. And now I am using OpenTabletDriver and even now after I installed the Tablet Calibration plugin it's not working very well.With the plugin I am using you have to manually enter pixel by pixel to fix it which is frustrating and I can't seem to get it right. I'm basically having to use my mouse to fix the mistakes it makes and to open and close applications because the actual pen goes off screen before I can get the cursor in the right place.My other problem with OpenTabletDriver is that the buttons on the tablet and pen will not work. IT IS REALLY ANNOYING ME.I would rather be using the official driver since it's easier to use but I just can't get it to work.I'm not sure if I should just install a different distro because apparently Linux Mint is the issue here.And I have tried wayland and that just crashed my computer.Send help.2upvotes·5comments
Sound died and cant fix it Sound died and cant fix itu/chicolince•5 days agoSound died and cant fix itSOLVEDHello, im a new user in linux mint. I've had this system for around 1 week.I was playing warframe as usual in my pc, everything worked fine, was also on a voice call with discord and checking something a friend told me to look on the browser (just a normal website with text information) and suddenly my pc completely froze. I had to forcely shut it down holding power button and when i restarted it the computer no longer had any sound. Have spent like 2:30 hours trying to fix this, with no progress. Even reloaded a snapshot from yesterday when sound worked with timeshift, it didnt fix it. Been asking copilot and it says it may be some problem with firmware, but i dont wanna share with the ai all the info about kernel stuff terminal shows in screen, as i think it may be sort of dangerous (i dont know much about this).Also, pavucontrol shows in the mixer sound is happening (i see thr bar moving) but no sound whatsoever. Went to alsamixer and nothing shows as muted irc.I'm using linux mint cinnamon. My device is an msi cyborg, it has nvidia rtx 4060 and an intel cpu. If any more information is needed let me know. Please help me, i cant do some of the college stuff with no sound.
Finally switched fully to Linux mint Finally switched fully to Linux mintu/Genius_Cat_1002•18 days agoFinally switched fully to Linux mintDesktop Screenshot
Good apps to use my android tablet as a display tablet? Good apps to use my android tablet as a display tablet?u/voidpopo•5 days agoGood apps to use my android tablet as a display tablet?Support RequestI've tried weylus and weylus community edition (both very slow, even when wired), sunshine and moonlight/artemis (works best but when creating a 2nd monitor in xrandr for sunshine to stream to, the inputs through moonlight become weirdly offset by a significant amount), deskreen (no touch gestures iirc), and a few others i think.There seems to be a decent amount of good graphic tablet solutions, but i can't find a good display tablet solution. Anybody know one??? I've been looking for so long.......
Need some help with fingerprint. Need some help with fingerprint.u/Kyri-E-leison•5 days agoNeed some help with fingerprint.Support RequestHi guys, I'm very new to Linux, so patience will be appreciated.I've been trying to get the fingerprint working on my t480 with mixed results, it wouldn't work with the default software, so I'm usingthis.I had to change some settings, but eventually got the system to ask for fingerprint instead of password. However, when I boot the thing, the fingerprint doesn't work properly, it says it worked, but when I click the “start session”, it just goes back to the login screen again and again.Does anyone know how to make it login normally? Or at least make it so the login doesn't ask for fingerprint?Thanks anyway.
PSA: Linux Mint 22.3 "Zena" is out! Help offload the mirrors by using Torrents. PSA: Linux Mint 22.3 "Zena" is out! Help offload the mirrors by using Torrents.u/JokaGaming2K10•1 mo. agoPSA: Linux Mint 22.3 "Zena" is out! Help offload the mirrors by using Torrents.Announcement
Bluetooth Controller not showing up in list when searching for device Bluetooth Controller not showing up in list when searching for deviceu/Mossy_Snail_Friend•5 days agoBluetooth Controller not showing up in list when searching for deviceSOLVEDEDIT: I figured it out! It was showing up, It just had an unusual name. Key linker something.Sorry about that!Heya! I recently got a pink candy pop IINE controller. It doesn’t say anywhere on the amazon listing or official website page (as far as I can see) that it’s incompatible with linux, and it DOES say it’s compatible with PC, however it also doesn’t state that it IS compatible with linux, so that might be my problem, however I’m really REALLY hoping I can get this to work somehow.I recently got a new pc and decided to finally ditch windows (with a little nudge from my boyfriend, and a LOT of tech help lol), so I have linux mint with cinnamon. It’s my first time using linux on any device so please bear with me if you can ^^;I hit the lil bluetooth icon thingo in the tray, hold a and the home button to put my new controller into pairing mode,and hit search, on my pc, in the bluetooth connecting software thing.a bunch of things show up, but from my limited knowledge none of them look like a controller to me ^^;That also might be my problem, that it’s showing up but I can’t tell what one it is…If anyone can help me figure out how to actually get this dang thing working it would mean the world to me.Thank you for reading, hope you have a great day!
Games run worse than windows Games run worse than windowsu/ExcellentSilver8763•7 days agoGames run worse than windowsGamingHi, I installed mint some 5 days ago and it works great so far but I wanted to play some games from steam, light ones not cpu-gpu heavy games but now they run much worse than windows.I'd appreciate if someone helped
Nvidia driver issues? Nvidia driver issues?u/ShadowBracken•5 days agoNvidia driver issues?Hi there,I'm running Linux Mint 22.2 and notice since a week or so some unusual behavior in regards to my graphics (Nvidia RTX 4070).Especially when I turn off my screen and go AFK for a while, then turn on the screen again my screen is split in two (mouse pointer is duplicated) and with some weird tearing in the graphics in the middle.This doesn't occur when normally using the PC or even when pushing the card to the limits when gaming.What I checked:- After a reboot everything is fine again, however a simple logout/login does not fix it.- Temps of the videocard are right in the ballpark.- Screen is working fine.- Driver is set to latest recommended (590)Anyone else who noticed this kind of behavior?
Another "I switched to Linux" Post Another "I switched to Linux" Postu/LonelyCopy5838•22 days agoAnother "I switched to Linux" PostFluff
Finally Switched To Linux(Best Decision) Finally Switched To Linux(Best Decision)u/Willpat_1234•21 days agoFinally Switched To Linux(Best Decision)
Spotify is broken. Spotify is broken.u/n0zkl3r•5 days agoSpotify is broken.Support RequestHi!The official repositories no longer allow updates via the manager. I uninstalled and deleted everything (official repository and keys). I reinstalled via the Mint software library (which successfully restored the official repository and keys), but now Spotify won't launch!Thanks
Thank You to the Linux Mint Team :) Thank You to the Linux Mint Team :)u/RitaMay56•28 days agoThank You to the Linux Mint Team :)New to redit and to Linux, so probably not posting this in the right place...please excuse me.  Just want to saythanks to the Linux Mint teambecause I now have two working computers instead of zero.  My 14-year-old desktop hadn't been supported by Microsoft since Windows 7, so I've been using it as a DVD player.  My cheap 8-year-old HP laptop didn't qualify for Windows 11 (wasn't working very well with Win 10 for that matter).  Installed Mint 22.2 on both about two months ago, and just upgraded to 22.3 Zena.  The upgrade on the laptop took 15 minutes from start to completion of the reboot, and that's with a slow HDD and a slow internet connection.  A Windows 10 feature update used to take hours on that laptop, and it would always hang on the restart.Linux Mint team, you're wonderful!
Do different file systems make data recovery difficult? Do different file systems make data recovery difficult?u/Ok-Spot-2913•5 days agoDo different file systems make data recovery difficult?if I reformat a hdd to another file system multiple times, could the erased data on the drive still be recovered?if I format it to ntfs, then to exfat, then to ext4, etc.
Many people think Mint-X is ugly, but I think it's beautiful. It gives me a nostalgic feeling. Many people think Mint-X is ugly, but I think it's beautiful. It gives me a nostalgic feeling.u/augusto_peress•20 days agoMany people think Mint-X is ugly, but I think it's beautiful. It gives me a nostalgic feeling.Discussion
My headphones are not connecting with bluetooth on linux mint. My headphones are not connecting with bluetooth on linux mint.u/CommandStrong5099•2 days agoMy headphones are not connecting with bluetooth on linux mint.SOLVEDI just started using linux mint and I cant get my headphones to connect to my pc. I've tried updating everything and I have re installed bluetooth, but I still can't get it to connect. Any ideas how to fix it?
From Windows 11 to Linux Mint 22.3 Cinnamon — What Actually Won Me Over From Windows 11 to Linux Mint 22.3 Cinnamon — What Actually Won Me Overu/paravantis•10 days agoFrom Windows 11 to Linux Mint 22.3 Cinnamon — What Actually Won Me OverThese first impressions from Linux Mint 22.3 Cinnamon are based on my limited experience with Linux Mint and my long history with Windows (from Windows 3.1 through Windows 11 — which I eventually just couldn’t put up with anymore):Updates are fast and painless: Updates install quickly and usually without forced reboots, which feels like a breath of fresh air compared to Windows.Display clarity is excellent: All app windows look crisp and clear — no more blurry text in older applications that I had to manually optimize for DPI scaling on Windows.System settings are centralized and coherent: Everything lives in one well-organized settings app that looks good and makes sense. No more hunting for cryptically hidden options through separate System Settings and Control Panel items.Desktop customization is superb: There’s a tremendous amount of control over how the desktop behaves. The panel (Mint’s equivalent of the Windows taskbar) supports applets and extensions that let me tailor functionality to my workflow. I particularly love hot corners: I have the upper-left corner set to“show all open windows”and the lower-right to“show desktop”— just move the mouse cursor there, no clicking needed.Software Manager, the central repository of Linux Mint apps, is well organized, offers thousands of free programs, and — unlike the Microsoft Store — works without delays or unexplained installation failures.Working with Microsoft Office files offline is now feasible: The free OnlyOffice offers very good compatibility with Microsoft Office formats and looks familiar if you’re used to Office. Having LibreOffice installed alongside it is a bonus — LibreOffice is more powerful in some areas (though with its enthusiastic development, I find it less polished and perhaps more buggy). I love having both.Google Docs, Sheets, and Slides deserve special mention: They offer excellent compatibility with Microsoft Office formats and provide a simple, pleasant working environment reminiscent of the early days of MacWrite and MacPaint. They can be installed as apps in Google Chrome (or Brave, if you prefer) using the browser’s web app feature, which lets you place their icons on the panel or desktop and use them much like regular installed programs. The same applies to Microsoft 365’s free online versions of Word, Excel, and PowerPoint. This setup greatly simplifies the workflow for anyone who relies on traditional office applications.There are now more native Linux alternatives for many Windows programs: For example, statistical analysis tools such as SPSS and Minitab can be largely replaced by JASP and jamovi, which have really nice interfaces and handle many common tasks. For more advanced work, R with RStudio is powerful — though it does require scripting.In fact,for those who routinely do statistical analysis, JASP and jamovi complement each other very well: JASP is more polished and benefits from strong institutional backing (notably from the University of Amsterdam), while jamovi often fills in gaps through its extensive ecosystem of installable modules. For example, JASP currently focuses on binary (binomial) logistic regression, whereas jamovi also supports ordinal and multinomial logistic regression.PSPP is another useful free statistical package: While it supports only a subset of SPSS analyses and offers limited graphics, it serves as a very fast viewer for SPSS data files, opening them almost instantaneously and much faster than recent Java-based SPSS versions.Gaming and Windows apps work better than I expected: Running Windows games through Steam (with Proton), Faugus Launcher (which I like better than Lutris), and Heroic Launcher works well, and I’ve also had success with older Windows applications using PlayOnLinux.In particular,Linux Mint is an excellent hobbyist environment for older Windows and classic games. Through various tools and launchers (such as DOSBox), it is easy to run legacy games and applications that no longer work on modern versions of Windows, as well as to emulate classic systems like the Sinclair ZX Spectrum, Commodore 64, and Amiga — although, of course, emulation is also possible on Windows.Linux Mint has excellent community support and is very easy to reinstall: There have been a couple of times when I felt frustrated and briefly considered going back to Windows instead of struggling to figure things out on my own. But then I asked myself: go back to what — Windows 11? It’s no longer good enough for me, especially after my experience with Linux Mint Cinnamon. The Linux Mint forums are outstanding, and when you post a problem, you are often likely to receive helpful expert replies within minutes or an hour. Even in the worst-case scenario — when something breaks badly and a full reinstall is necessary — the process is so quick and straightforward that you can usually be back up and running within a couple of hours, with most essential applications freely available through the Software Manager. In that sense, even the worst outcome is no longer that bad.Finally, for theoccasional, unavoidable need to work in Windows, I keep Windows 11 on a separate drive as a dual boot, although I find that my rare forays into it feel like a suburbanite visiting the city and trying to stay as little as possible.These points are neither exhaustive nor objectively definitive; they simply reflect my own needs and experience. Still, they may be useful to anyone considering a switch from Windows 11 to a free operating system that feels more like a refined Windows 7 than the rather messy versions that followed.
problems with install/uninstall, persistent error message problems with install/uninstall, persistent error messageu/underearths•5 days agoproblems with install/uninstall, persistent error messageSOLVEDproblems with install/uninstall, persistent error messager/linux4noobs•5 days agoproblems with install/uninstall, persistent error messagehi all, i switched to linux mint a couple weeks ago. i've been having issues with installing and uninstalling programs and sometimes updates as well, with programs a lot of the time it will say it failed but then still install. when i run commands i tend to get this error message:Errors were encountered while processing:  linux-headers-6.17.0-14-generic  linux-headers-generic-hwe-24.04  linux-generic-hwe-24.04  linux-image-6.17.0-14-generic E: Sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (1)i have tried mostly everything onthis pageand it all results in that error. i am having similar problems to the ones onthis pagebut nothing there has worked for me either. help... i have no idea what im doing with any of this.os: linux mint cinnamon 22.2hardware: ASUS vivobook pro 15 N6506MJ_Q533MJIntel(R) Core(TM) Ultra 7 155HNVIDIA GeForce RTX 3050 6GB Laptop GPU (i did install the nvidia drivers a bit ago and that did help with some other issues i was having)2upvotes·6comments
Random issue that i fixed and wanted to make the solution known Random issue that i fixed and wanted to make the solution knownu/AlemarTheKobold•3 days agoRandom issue that i fixed and wanted to make the solution knownFluffHowdy! I have been struggling for a few days with my bluetooth not wanting to turn on, and my machine taking more than 3 minutes to start up after biosTurns out the issues are related, and the solution was to unplug my PC and hold the power button for 1 minute. Booted in the normal 20~ seconds, bluetooth connected right upJust wanted to potentially save someone an OS reinstall
Finally got DaVinci Resolve working! Finally got DaVinci Resolve working!u/nmc52•6 days agoFinally got DaVinci Resolve working!FluffAnd so the last stumbling block has been removed.I can now finally drop dual booting with Windows 11.Next step: boot Mint from USB flash drive, repartition my 1TB SSD, install Mint, download all the packages I have tested and used for the past four weeks, and once more enjoy my laptop.I just wanted to say this, nothing else to see, move along now.
mod gui look settings mod gui look settingsu/sky1ark3•5 days agomod gui look settingsSupport RequestHello world. I am looking to change the look of my desktop and then after finding what i like being able to save the settings for back up to use on other computers or even test out other looks others have made and shared. Is there anything like that available?
Hi, Please help me out with these messages Hi, Please help me out with these messagesu/MonsterBeast123alt•5 days agoHi, Please help me out with these messagesHi, Please help me. I was trying to install mint linux but i get these errors whenever i try to start flashing with persistence. When i was flashing for the first time, i had forgotten to make a partition for persistence, hence why i cancelled the process and started again, this time accounting for persistence. But every time i try flashing, it gives me this error. i tried looking for solutions everywhere and tried cleaning the usb drive with diskpart but nothing seems to work. i also used the chkdsk command but it says theres nothing wrong. Please help me out
mi escritorio mi escritoriou/Haunting_Tooth_6808•10 days agomi escritorio
Just too much for my old laptop - this post is not important just me mucking about :) Just too much for my old laptop - this post is not important just me mucking about :)u/Technical_Maybe_5925•5 days agoJust too much for my old laptop - this post is not important just me mucking about :)Just too much for my old laptop - this post is not important just me mucking about :)r/QGIS•5 days agoJust too much for my old laptop - this post is not important just me mucking about :)I've been playing with linux mint DE with DWM on a Pentium dual core laptop with 3GB RAM circa 2009, I tried QGIS, Just not enough get up and go to use QGIS, I did not have high hopes but I wanted to push the envelope3upvotes·6comments
Getting started in the Linux world Getting started in the Linux worldu/SirDarthh•2 days agoGetting started in the Linux worldHello everyone, I've just migrated to Linux Mint. I'm using the Cinnamon version, and I'd like some tips on what I should learn to become 100% familiar with Linux, and also with the terminal.
Increase height between entries on cinnamenu Increase height between entries on cinnamenuu/livingforpiracy•5 days agoIncrease height between entries on cinnamenuSupport Request
RDP from Windows to Mint VM on TrueNAS RDP from Windows to Mint VM on TrueNASu/TX3931FB•5 days agoRDP from Windows to Mint VM on TrueNASSOLVEDHello all. I'm running TrueNas 25.04. I set up a Linux Mnt VM and installed xrdp, enabled it, opened port 3389. I went to my windows machine and opened port 3389. I can ping both ways and telnet into the VM. When I try to connect to the VM using Windows RDP it times out giving me an error. I made sure I was signed out of the VM before attempting to connect to it. I"m not the best at Linux so I don't know if this is a Mint problem, Windows problem or TrueNas issue. BTW I can SSH into the VM, I just can't get RDP to connect. Thanks If this is the wrong sub let me know. Appreciate it.
I guess I got GNOMEified I guess I got GNOMEifiedu/Extra-March-9392•2 days agoI guess I got GNOMEifiedFluffI guess I got GNOMEified
Running SSEEdit from Mod Organizer. Running SSEEdit from Mod Organizer.u/Arizona_Steve•5 days agoRunning SSEEdit from Mod Organizer.SOLVEDSo far my escapades to get Skyrim AE and its modding tools running in Linux has been successful, however I'm running into an issue with SSEEdit.As of now I have installed SSEEdit into my Skyrim SE directory under steam and simply added the executable to the Mod Organizer executable list. The application starts and the SSE edit screen briefly appears before crashing.There don't seem to any guides to adding SSEEdit to Mod Organizer, and I suspect I am missing a dependency somewhere.Has anyone managed to do this successfully?
Linux Mint Cinnamon 22.3 Zena Desktop Linux Mint Cinnamon 22.3 Zena Desktopu/Main-Butterscotch623•6 days agoLinux Mint Cinnamon 22.3 Zena Desktop
AI created this script, is it safe? AI created this script, is it safe?u/nmc52•5 days agoAI created this script, is it safe?SOLVEDFor context: I want to batch process mp4 files to mov format, I want to keep the original files and optionally run the script recursively. I want to use the resulting video files in the free version of DaVinci Resolve. I realize I could just copy existing mp4 files and try it out, but I am also teaching myself bash. I'm pretty sure I understand the script, though.thanks for any insights.#!/bin/bash# ==============================================================================# DaVinci Resolve Linux Transcoder# Purpose: Converts H.264/AAC media to Resolve-friendly ProRes/PCM.# ==============================================================================show_help() {echo "Usage: ./resolve_convert.sh \"pattern\" [recursive|none] [hq|proxy]"echo ""echo "Arguments:"echo "  pattern    : File pattern in quotes (e.g., \"*.mp4\")"echo "  recursive  : (Optional) Search subdirectories"echo "  hq|proxy   : (Optional) HQ for masters, Proxy for fast editing"echo ""echo "Example:"echo "  ./resolve_convert.sh \"*.mp4\" recursive proxy"exit 1}# Ensure at least one argumentif [ -z "$1" ]; then show_help; fiPATTERN="$1"MODE="${2:-none}"QUALITY="${3:-hq}"# Set ProRes profile: 0 = Proxy (Small), 3 = HQ (High Quality)PROFILE=3[[ "$QUALITY" == "proxy" ]] && PROFILE=0# Discovery Logicif [ "$MODE" == "recursive" ]; then# find handles spaces in filenames better via a loopmapfile -d $'\0' FILES < <(find . -type f -name "$PATTERN" -print0)else# Simple shell expansion for current directoryFILES=($PATTERN)fi# Check if any files foundif [ ${#FILES[@]} -eq 0 ] || [ ! -e "${FILES[0]}" ]; thenecho "Error: No files found matching pattern: $PATTERN"exit 1fiecho "--- Starting Transcode ---"echo "Quality: ${QUALITY^^}"echo "Mode:    ${MODE^^}"echo "--------------------------"for FILE in "${FILES[@]}"; do# Skip if it's already a .mov we createdif [[ "$FILE" == *.mov ]]; then continue; fiOUTPUT="${FILE%.*}.mov"echo "Processing: $FILE"# FFmpeg Command# -c:v prores_ks : Apple ProRes compatible encoder# -profile:v     : Determines bit depth/compression# -c:a pcm_s16le : Uncompressed audio (Required for Resolve Linux Free)ffmpeg -i "$FILE" \-c:v prores_ks -profile:v "$PROFILE" \-c:a pcm_s16le \-hide_banner -loglevel error -stats \-y "$OUTPUT" < /dev/nullif [ $? -eq 0 ]; thenecho "Success -> $OUTPUT"elseecho "FAILED -> $FILE"fiecho ""doneecho "Transcoding Complete."
First day on mint it’s much smoother than microslop. First day on mint it’s much smoother than microslop.u/AwkwardPainting6919•14 days agoFirst day on mint it’s much smoother than microslop.Desktop Screenshot
W desktop or nah? W desktop or nah?u/fragolm•1 mo. agoW desktop or nah?Desktop Screenshot
Turn off RGB on RAM modules Turn off RGB on RAM modulesu/HUNorbert•3 days agoTurn off RGB on RAM modulesSOLVEDHello Everyone!Can anybody tell me how to turn off the RGB on RAM modules?I am using Linux Mint 22.3 - Cinnamon 64-bit with G.Skill Trident Z 5 Neo RAM modules on a full AMD based PC.Already tried to switch the light off with OpenRGB, but it didn't even recognizes the modules.Side note: I managed to install the G.SKILL Trident Z Lighting Control program via Wine, but didn't help much. No matter what I modify in the Lighting Control program it does not apply.If you have any idea how to solve this, please drop a comment and thank you in advance.SOLVED!Download OpenRGB directly from their webpage, not from Software Manager.
Will linux mint run well on these specs Will linux mint run well on these specsu/rezebestgirl20•21 days agoWill linux mint run well on these specs
Controller connected but not working? Controller connected but not working?u/Mossy_Snail_Friend•5 days agoController connected but not working?Support RequestOkay…I finally got my controller to connect via bluetooth, but steam can’t detect it, and when I open a game none of my button inputs are doing anything.its a pink candy pop IINE controller and I’m on linux mint with cinnamonI’m quite new to linux, please try to bear with me.If anyone can help that’d be greatly appreciated ^^;
Meet: TAM38 Meet: TAM38u/Revolutionary_Pack54•6 days agoMeet: TAM38
I'm on Mint:Cinnamon I'm on Mint:Cinnamonu/Tingsilike•3 days agoI'm on Mint:CinnamonFluffIt just feels more secure & less intrusive than windows 11. Not bubbly and peachy perfect & over done like windows. I'm running a dual boot and prefer cinnamon. Scrolling facebook it's still obvious im being 'bent over the table' as far as my data goes tho.
Pas de wlan0 Pas de wlan0u/a_404404•2 days agoPas de wlan0Salut alors je vais faire simple j’ai décidé d’installer Linux mint à coter de mon Windows (tiny11) j’ai voulu faire mes petits expériences avec les wifi en utilisant bettercap mais je me suis rendu compte que je n’avais pas de wlan0 pourtant je me suis connecté à mon réseau wifi sans problème Linux fonctionne nickel mais je comprends pas pourquoi j’ai pas de wlan0 j’ai uniquement wlp2s0 ou lo donc je comprends pas trop j’ai ait pas mal de recherche mais j’ai rien trouver.. si quelqu’un sais pourquoi merci d’avance !
Has anyone ever missed or needed something which is 'Windows only'? Has anyone ever missed or needed something which is 'Windows only'?u/LukeLikeNuke•9 days agoHas anyone ever missed or needed something which is 'Windows only'?DiscussionI'm talking about games, apps, software and etc. Anything that is 'Windows Only'. Have you guys ever ran into the problem of not being able to do something on Linux?Edit: HOLY CRAP. That's a lot of comments
I finally have it) I finally have it)u/nor3siks•27 days agoI finally have it)
Huawei Matebook D15 (BOM-WXX9) - Sound detected but not working Huawei Matebook D15 (BOM-WXX9) - Sound detected but not workingu/computer_guy567•5 days agoHuawei Matebook D15 (BOM-WXX9) - Sound detected but not workingSupport RequestHi, I've just installed Linux Mint today with everything updated and I'm having trouble only with the sound.For what I can tell I'm currently using pipewire 1.0.5  and my sound device is detected as 'Speakers ACP/ACP3X/ACP6x Audio Coprocessor", I don't get any sound from there no matter how do I configure this output. Also it seems that the mic isn't showing up either. Connecting my headphones into the headphone jack doesn't work either.The only way I got this laptop to make any sound was connecting a Bluetooth speaker which gives me some sort of hope.I'm lost in terms of configuring audio on Linux so I would appreciate any help to solve this issue, thanks in advance!
virtual machine virtual machineu/Flat-Management-8841•6 days agovirtual machineSupport RequestHi, im a new linux mint user .I'm trying to set a virtual machine with win11 for school, already tried kvm/qemu and virtual box but failed any poiters?im running a potato optiplex 3040
SSD unknown? SSD unknown?u/Jillthanor•5 days agoSSD unknown?SOLVED
Never have I loved chrome more Never have I loved chrome moreu/RudeusGreyrat575•2 days agoNever have I loved chrome moreIt's been 3 days since I have shifted from windows to linux mint. I am now using word, whatsapp,and excel, on chrome web apps. when i was on win, I thought who idiot would be silly enough to use web apps. now ik who😭I even view pdfs on adobe's chrome extension.Life is full of irony u just have to be able to see it
What made you use mint? What made you use mint?u/IsHyperactive_•2 days agoWhat made you use mint?
Gaming on Mint - My foolproof checklist Gaming on Mint - My foolproof checklistu/JeanFransw4g•2 days agoGaming on Mint - My foolproof checklistGamingGaming on Mint - My foolproof checklistr/linux_gaming•2 days agoGaming on Mint - My foolproof checklistLinux is perfect for gaming !!Below is a complete list of settings and things I did for it to work on Mint. I feel like this might also apply to other OS as it is mostly hardware/game configuration.I had a hard time setting it up (because no idea what I was doing), but after a few hours of digging in forums/Reddit posts I achieved a very qualitative gaming experience, by far superior to Windows 11 with the exact same hardware (it legit feels like a 400€ upgrade).I am new to Linux, have basic understanding of terminal, hardware/software interaction, and I do not try to optimize everything. I was just trying to achieve “good-enough” performance.This only concerns Nvidia GPUs, but it may be worth trying equivalement settings with AMD/Intel drivers and settings. I cannot tell which parameters had an impact or not as I did not test them one by one.Hope this helps !Configuration (hardware / OS)Hardware: i9-9900K / RTX2070 / 32GB DDR4 RAM / Z390 mobo / 1TO NVMe SSD / VG27AQ Gsync monitorSecure boot disabled in UEFILatest Mint (22.3) with everything up to date (6.17 kernel, no idea how they work)Compositor disabled for full screen apps (Mint system settings > General)Checked if CPU was in powersave or performance mode:cat /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu*/cpufreq/scaling_governor(returns the current performance mode, for me it was all powersave)I ransudo apt install cpufrequtils && sudo cpufreq-set -r -g performanceto set to performance modeChecked that GPU is recognized with proper driver by running (in a terminal):nvidia-smi(Should display a lot of info on your GPU)glxinfo | grep "OpenGL renderer"(Should display Nvidia, and not Intel or mesa)Nvidia and Gsync settingsLatest Nvidia driver (590 at the time of writing)In Nvidia settings, Powermizer set to maximum performanceGsync enabled on my monitorGsync enabled in Nvidia settings app in MintSteam installationI randpkg --add-architecture i386; apt updateas root before installing Steam a a as per software manager instructions (no idea if actually necessary)Installed Steam as a system package (not flatpak)Proton Experimental (no GE needed so far)Shader pre-caching in Steam ENABLED (Settings > Downloads > Shaders pre-caching)Enabled performance monitor to monitor performance (Settings > In Game > performance monitor > full details)Game settingsDirectX 11 (for games that ask you to choose, DX12 is awfully laggy)Vsync disabled in gameGame in full screen mode (no borderless)ResultGames run butter smooth at 2560×1440 resolution on a 6 years old machine, no launching issues, no crashes, normal CPU/GPU temperatures (60/80°C, I have poor cooling in the machine at the moment).> > Every game runs better than on Windows 11 (with exact same hardware)A few games for reference:Elden ring Nightreign - 60FPS average (55-65) , medium graphics, no upscaling or tweaks, runs smoothDRG - 120 average (90 - 140), all on ultra, no upscaling/tweaksRoR2 - 100 average (75 - 140), all on ultraExpedition 33 - 55 average (capped at 60), medium quality with performance DLSSGhostrunner - 100 average, ultra quality, no upscaling (sound issues tho)All OOB, Proton experimental, no startup commandsOther considerationsI started from a fresh install (I had a lot of graphic issues after cloning OS from another SSD)Wayland seems to cause issuesStable FPS doesn’t necessary mean it’s going to be fluid, I had unbearable stutters at constant 120+fps, and smooth game at varying framerates (90 - 120 FPS)Might seem trivial, but check in monitor settings that you are at the maximum framerate for your screen (setting 60Hz on my 144Hz monitor is awfully laggy)I have almost no customization plugins installed (heavy Mint interface customization seems to have an impact on performance)Games sometimes start in 4K, no idea whyAlso tried Cachy OS (found it meh), Pop OS (absolutely nothing worked OOB, dunno why), Bazzite (wayy too minimalistic and console-like for me)44upvotes·34comments
Usando o Mint e tô achando sensacional Usando o Mint e tô achando sensacionalu/parwert•6 days agoUsando o Mint e tô achando sensacional
I need some help from you guys, i dont know what iam doing wrong anymore. I need some help from you guys, i dont know what iam doing wrong anymore.u/Stimpak74•5 days agoI need some help from you guys, i dont know what iam doing wrong anymore.SOLVEDI switched to Linux Mint Cinnamon last year and was overall quite happy with it.The only thing that bothered me was the menu editor, every time i moved a program to another category it either dissapeared oder it duplicated the category.This was really annoying because i had to create an new starter for the program.So i decited to try out kde plasma to see if this fixes my problem.I installed it, got used to it, and tried the same.I even made a timeshift so if something fails i can go back.But again the menu editor completely ate a lot of my programs.So i selected the old Timeshift, and hoped for the best but my programs are still gone.I really dont get what iam doing wrong anymore.I love linux and i wont go back anymore but sometimes i drives me crazy :/(sorry for my bad english and my incompetenz)
Left mouse click not working properly in games Left mouse click not working properly in gamesu/tranquilseafinally•5 days agoLeft mouse click not working properly in gamesSupport RequestAny game where I need to hold down the left mouse button to attack has suddenly gone haywire. It was previously working fine. Now it takes at least two button presses to even get the attack to happen.  I have one game where the left mouse button is held down to animate a draw animation and accuracy time on a bow but now all that happens is a small draw, the left click releases for some reason when the button is pressed down and then fires which in this game means I cannot hit anything with a bow.This all started yesterday with a different mouse.  I moved to another mouse and the problem is persisting.Here's my system information:[code]System:Kernel: 6.8.0-100-generic arch: x86_64 bits: 64 compiler: gcc v: 13.3.0 clocksource: tscDesktop: Cinnamon v: 6.6.6 tk: GTK v: 3.24.41 wm: Muffin v: 6.6.3 vt: 7 dm: LightDM v: 1.30.0Distro: Linux Mint 22.3 Zena base: Ubuntu 24.04 nobleMachine:Type: Desktop System: Gigabyte product: X570 AORUS ELITE WIFI v: -CF serial: <superuser required>Mobo: Gigabyte model: X570 AORUS ELITE WIFI v: x.x serial: <superuser required>uuid: <superuser required> UEFI: American Megatrends v: F11 date: 12/06/2019CPU:Info: 8-core model: AMD Ryzen 7 3700X bits: 64 type: MT MCP smt: enabled arch: Zen 2 rev: 0cache: L1: 512 KiB L2: 4 MiB L3: 32 MiBSpeed (MHz): avg: 2901 high: 4294 min/max: 2200/4426 boost: enabled cores: 1: 2146 2: 42883: 4294 4: 2145 5: 4291 6: 2146 7: 2200 8: 2144 9: 2146 10: 4292 11: 3413 12: 2141 13: 429114: 2200 15: 2145 16: 2146 bogomips: 114985Flags: avx avx2 ht lm nx pae sse sse2 sse3 sse4_1 sse4_2 sse4a ssse3Graphics:Device-1: NVIDIA TU106 [GeForce RTX 2070] vendor: Gigabyte driver: nvidia v: 580.126.09arch: Turing pcie: speed: 8 GT/s lanes: 16 ports: active: none off: DP-2,HDMI-A-1empty: DP-1,DP-3 bus-ID: 09:00.0 chip-ID: 10de:1f02 class-ID: 0300Display: x11 server:X.Orgv: 21.1.11 with: Xwayland v: 23.2.6 driver: X: loaded: nvidiaunloaded: fbdev,modesetting,nouveau,vesa gpu: nvidia,nvidia-nvswitch display-ID: :0 screens: 1Screen-1: 0 s-res: 3600x1080 s-dpi: 96 s-size: 953x286mm (37.52x11.26") s-diag: 995mm (39.17")Monitor-1: DP-2 mapped: DP-3 note: disabled pos: left model: Samsung SyncMasterserial: <filter> res: 1680x1050 hz: 60 dpi: 90 size: 474x296mm (18.66x11.65") diag: 559mm (22")modes: max: 1680x1050 min: 640x480Monitor-2: HDMI-A-1 mapped: HDMI-0 note: disabled pos: primary,right model: BenQ GL2450Hserial: <filter> res: 1920x1080 hz: 60 dpi: 92 size: 531x298mm (20.91x11.73") diag: 609mm (24")modes: max: 1920x1080 min: 640x480API: EGL v: 1.5 hw: drv: nvidia platforms: device: 0 drv: nvidia device: 2 drv: swrast gbm:drv: nvidia surfaceless: drv: nvidia x11: drv: nvidia inactive: wayland,device-1API: OpenGL v: 4.6.0 compat-v: 4.5 vendor: nvidia mesa v: 580.126.09 glx-v: 1.4direct-render: yes renderer: NVIDIA GeForce RTX 2070/PCIe/SSE2API: Vulkan v: 1.3.275 layers: 9 surfaces: xcb,xlib device: 0 type: discrete-gpu driver: N/Adevice-ID: 10de:1f02 device: 1 type: cpu driver: N/A device-ID: 10005:0000Audio:Device-1: NVIDIA TU106 High Definition Audio vendor: Gigabyte driver: snd_hda_intel v: kernelpcie: speed: 8 GT/s lanes: 16 bus-ID: 09:00.1 chip-ID: 10de:10f9 class-ID: 0403Device-2: AMD Starship/Matisse HD Audio vendor: Gigabyte driver: snd_hda_intel v: kernel pcie:speed: 16 GT/s lanes: 16 bus-ID: 0b:00.4 chip-ID: 1022:1487 class-ID: 0403API: ALSA v: k6.8.0-100-generic status: kernel-apiServer-1: PipeWire v: 1.0.5 status: active with: 1: pipewire-pulse status: active2: wireplumber status: active 3: pipewire-alsa type: pluginNetwork:Device-1: Intel Dual Band Wireless-AC 3168NGW [Stone Peak] driver: iwlwifi v: kernel pcie:speed: 2.5 GT/s lanes: 1 bus-ID: 04:00.0 chip-ID: 8086:24fb class-ID: 0280IF: wlp4s0 state: down mac: <filter>Device-2: Intel I211 Gigabit Network vendor: Gigabyte driver: igb v: kernel pcie:speed: 2.5 GT/s lanes: 1 port: f000 bus-ID: 05:00.0 chip-ID: 8086:1539 class-ID: 0200IF: enp5s0 state: up speed: 1000 Mbps duplex: full mac: <filter>Bluetooth:Device-1: Intel Wireless-AC 3168 Bluetooth driver: btusb v: 0.8 type: USB rev: 2.0 speed: 12 Mb/slanes: 1 bus-ID: 3-5:2 chip-ID: 8087:0aa7 class-ID: e001Report: hciconfig ID: hci0 rfk-id: 0 state: up address: <filter> bt-v: 4.2 lmp-v: 8 sub-v: 1100hci-v: 8 rev: 1100 class-ID: 7c0104Drives:Local Storage: total: 4.55 TiB used: 241.23 GiB (5.2%)ID-1: /dev/nvme0n1 vendor: Western Digital model: WDS100T3X0C-00SJG0 size: 931.51 GiBspeed: 31.6 Gb/s lanes: 4 tech: SSD serial: <filter> fw-rev: 111110WD temp: 37.9 C scheme: GPTID-2: /dev/sda vendor: Western Digital model: WD40EZRZ-00GXCB0 size: 3.64 TiB speed: 6.0 Gb/stech: HDD rpm: 5400 serial: <filter> fw-rev: 0A80 scheme: GPTPartition:ID-1: / size: 915.32 GiB used: 241.22 GiB (26.4%) fs: ext4 dev: /dev/nvme0n1p3ID-2: /boot/efi size: 512 MiB used: 6.1 MiB (1.2%) fs: vfat dev: /dev/nvme0n1p2Swap:ID-1: swap-1 type: file size: 2 GiB used: 0 KiB (0.0%) priority: -2 file: /swapfileUSB:Hub-1: 1-0:1 info: hi-speed hub with single TT ports: 6 rev: 2.0 speed: 480 Mb/s lanes: 1chip-ID: 1d6b:0002 class-ID: 0900Hub-2: 1-2:2 info: Terminus Hub ports: 4 rev: 2.0 speed: 480 Mb/s lanes: 1 power: 100mAchip-ID: 1a40:0101 class-ID: 0900Device-1: 1-2.3:7 info: Razer USA Naga V2 HyperSpeed type: mouse,keyboarddriver: hid-generic,usbhid interfaces: 3 rev: 2.0 speed: 12 Mb/s lanes: 1 power: 100mAchip-ID: 1532:00b4 class-ID: 0301 serial: <filter>Device-2: 1-2.4:6 info: Corsair K95 RGB PLATINUM XT Mechanical Gaming Keyboardtype: keyboard,HID,mouse driver: hid-generic,usbhid interfaces: 4 rev: 2.0 speed: 12 Mb/slanes: 1 power: 500mA chip-ID: 1b1c:1b89 class-ID: 0301 serial: <filter>Hub-3: 1-3:3 info: Genesys Logic Hub ports: 4 rev: 2.0 speed: 480 Mb/s lanes: 1 power: 100mAchip-ID: 05e3:0608 class-ID: 0900Device-1: 1-4:5 info: Integrated Express IT8297 RGB LED Controller type: keyboarddriver: hid-generic,usbhid interfaces: 1 rev: 2.0 speed: 12 Mb/s lanes: 1 power: 100mAchip-ID: 048d:8297 class-ID: 0301Hub-4: 2-0:1 info: super-speed hub ports: 4 rev: 3.1 speed: 10 Gb/s lanes: 1 chip-ID: 1d6b:0003class-ID: 0900Hub-5: 3-0:1 info: hi-speed hub with single TT ports: 6 rev: 2.0 speed: 480 Mb/s lanes: 1chip-ID: 1d6b:0002 class-ID: 0900Device-1: 3-5:2 info: Intel Wireless-AC 3168 Bluetooth type: bluetooth driver: btusbinterfaces: 2 rev: 2.0 speed: 12 Mb/s lanes: 1 power: 100mA chip-ID: 8087:0aa7 class-ID: e001Hub-6: 3-6:3 info: Genesys Logic Hub ports: 4 rev: 2.0 speed: 480 Mb/s lanes: 1 power: 100mAchip-ID: 05e3:0608 class-ID: 0900Device-1: 3-6.4:4 info: NZXT USB Device type: HID driver: nzxt-smart2,usbhid interfaces: 1rev: 2.0 speed: 12 Mb/s lanes: 1 power: 100mA chip-ID: 1e71:2009 class-ID: 0300 serial: <filter>Hub-7: 4-0:1 info: super-speed hub ports: 4 rev: 3.1 speed: 10 Gb/s lanes: 1 chip-ID: 1d6b:0003class-ID: 0900Hub-8: 5-0:1 info: hi-speed hub with single TT ports: 2 rev: 2.0 speed: 480 Mb/s lanes: 1chip-ID: 1d6b:0002 class-ID: 0900Hub-9: 6-0:1 info: super-speed hub ports: 4 rev: 3.1 speed: 10 Gb/s lanes: 1 chip-ID: 1d6b:0003class-ID: 0900Hub-10: 7-0:1 info: hi-speed hub with single TT ports: 4 rev: 2.0 speed: 480 Mb/s lanes: 1chip-ID: 1d6b:0002 class-ID: 0900Hub-11: 8-0:1 info: super-speed hub ports: 4 rev: 3.1 speed: 10 Gb/s lanes: 1chip-ID: 1d6b:0003 class-ID: 0900Sensors:System Temperatures: cpu: 57.5 C mobo: 29.0 C gpu: nvidia temp: 51 CFan Speeds (rpm): N/A gpu: nvidia fan: 0%Repos:Packages: 2297 pm: dpkg pkgs: 2281 pm: flatpak pkgs: 16No active apt repos in: /etc/apt/sources.listActive apt repos in: /etc/apt/sources.list.d/official-package-repositories.list1: deb https://muug.ca/mirror/linuxmint/packageszena main upstream import backport2: deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntunoble main restricted universe multiverse3: deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntunoble-updates main restricted universe multiverse4: deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntunoble-backports main restricted universe multiverse5: deb http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/noble-security main restricted universe multiverseInfo:Memory: total: 32 GiB available: 31.28 GiB used: 5.37 GiB (17.2%)Processes: 424 Power: uptime: 3h 13m states: freeze,mem,disk suspend: deep wakeups: 0hibernate: platform Init: systemd v: 255 target: graphical (5) default: graphicalCompilers: gcc: 13.3.0 Client: Unknown python3.12 client inxi: 3.3.34[/code]
Errors when creating a snapshot Errors when creating a snapshotu/BussyEater6•5 days agoErrors when creating a snapshotSupport Request
Pixelated-inspired lock screen Pixelated-inspired lock screenu/Captainnick547•27 days agoPixelated-inspired lock screenDesktop Screenshot
Fazer ou não fazer upgrade para Linux mint 22.3 Zena Fazer ou não fazer upgrade para Linux mint 22.3 Zenau/Big-Tourist-4891•5 days agoFazer ou não fazer upgrade para Linux mint 22.3 ZenaOla. Estou com o a versão linux mint XFCE e agora recebi uma notificação para atualizar para o linux mint 22.3 Zena. Posso ficar com a versão que tenho XFCE ou tenho mesmo de atualizar para a Zena? O meu pc só tem 4 gigas de memoria ram tenho receio que fique lento e estou bem com esta versão.O que faço?Obrigado
Speech to Text Software (solved) Speech to Text Software (solved)u/InterestingRide264•4 days agoSpeech to Text Software (solved)SOLVEDI hope this is okay--I just wanted to share an accessibility solution I found, in case anyone was struggling the way that I did trying to find a solution for Linux Mint (Cinnamon). There were two major inhibitions for transferring from windows to me. One was my special snowflake mouse, which is evoluent. It requires software on the windows side to map the buttons to what you need. input-remapper took care of that one right away.The tougher one for me was finding a speech to text solution. I was previously using whisper typing, so I was used to speed and accuracy with a one button shortcut. unfortunately its Windows only and wine wouldn't work with it.I went through five different solutions before finding what works. I think the biggest issue for me is without cloud services, my old computer couldn't handle processing the speech library. Handy w Parakeetv3 speech library has been a happy medium in terms of accuracy and speed. It's not perfect, I've had typos and crashes. But it's been great for me.Second place I would give to speech note with fasterwhisper for the speech library. It's okay, but it really operates as a copy and paste as opposed to allowing you to dictate into whatever window you would usually type in. Every right click, copy, paste, or extra button you have to push is a nightmare when you can't really use your hands. To that end, if any of you are working on speech to text software, I beg you to allow people to edit to one button for the function shortcut. I had to rule out so many candidates because they had some combination of control alt and another button so far across the keyboard that I could never manage.This is the longest I've spent on this side of my Windows/Mint partition and I think once I figure out my game library It's a wrap for Windows for good. I hope this helps any other disabled people reluctant to move away from Windows because of their special snowflake software.
For those who want a slightly fancier Mint-Chan wallpaper [1920x1080] For those who want a slightly fancier Mint-Chan wallpaper [1920x1080]u/Hexatona•11 days agoFor those who want a slightly fancier Mint-Chan wallpaper [1920x1080]Fluff
i hate 22.3 zena app menu i hate 22.3 zena app menuu/44_Hacker_Wrench_44•2 days agoi hate 22.3 zena app menu
Boot Defaulting tty1 Despite LightDM Being tty7 Boot Defaulting tty1 Despite LightDM Being tty7u/FeatherMelodyArt•5 days agoBoot Defaulting tty1 Despite LightDM Being tty7Support Requestsystemctl get-defaultcomes back asgraphical.targetlightdm.service is correctly starting on tty7, and is accessible with ctrl+alt+f7 without having to run anythingI have run commands to reinstall it, reconfigure it, unmask it, and setting the defaultFor some reason, I cannot seem to get it to default to tty7, where lightdm is, on boot.
Solid app for notes and basic coding? Solid app for notes and basic coding?u/WilliamLermer•7 days agoSolid app for notes and basic coding?DiscussionHi, I'm looking for a good solution that isn't too overwhelming and just does what it needs to without any crazy features.I've been using notepad++ on W10 all these years to write done code snippets, inspect files, temporary and sometimes long-term copypasta dump, writing down notes and ideas, etcIt would be nice if it's lightweight, ideally open source and making it easy to navigate through my collection of files, so I can access through the app rather than open single files to see what's inside if that makes senseAlso important to be able to easily export to any other OS, so file format shouldn't be anything exotic
Backup suggestions for Linux Mint Backup suggestions for Linux Mintu/bobk4thousand•7 days agoBackup suggestions for Linux MintSOLVEDOk, old school windows sysadmin who has a desktop and laptop now running Mint 22.3 (upgraded from 22.2) and looking for suggestions on backup strategies.Both are running Timeshift with 12 days of user and boot data and weekly I'll boot up with a USB of Rescuezilla and save to an external hard drive - 5 drives for the desktop and 2 for the laptop.  (Laptop isn't run that often.)Open to hear what others are doing or any suggestions with cloudy storage.Thanks in advance.
Educational platforms blocking Linux Educational platforms blocking Linuxu/Demo_MVP•6 days agoEducational platforms blocking Linux​I'm having trouble accessing some educational platforms on Linux Mint 21.3 XFCE.​The videos refuse to play, displaying an error: "OS not supported. Please use Windows or Android." ​I have already tried: ​Switching User Agent to android/Chrome (Still detected). ​Enabling DRM/Widevine in Chrome and Firefox. ​Using different browsers (Brave, chromr,firefox).​The platforms seem to be using a more advanced method than just checking the User Agent to detect the OS. Is there any way to bypass this detection or a specific configuration to make the browser "appear" as Windows to these sites?​Thanks
Windows Molesting My PC Windows Molesting My PCu/kd30i•5 days agoWindows Molesting My PCSupport RequestYou read the title, Windows is molesting my PC. Basically, after running my PC on my linux ssd, my PC slows down like crazy for a few minutes, then crashes and Windows launches without allowing me back to the boot screen.Is this an issue with my linux install or just a windows issue? I don’t want to uninstall Windows becauseI like my online games. Do I have any other options?Edit: I boot linux on a separate ssd than my Windows ssd.
Wow Wowu/Pitiful-Sail-1068•5 days agoWowWhat an OS is mint I love the Linux mint with Nalaonly I have a problem with YouTube download Video for offline I try ytdlp but not good I hate the cliI use namida .deb I install it but can't login my YouTube account idk I think because it is in beta I think but same beta worked with window back then
Does anyone know how to get the arctis Nova pro to work on linux Does anyone know how to get the arctis Nova pro to work on linuxu/Plus-Measurement-953•5 days agoDoes anyone know how to get the arctis Nova pro to work on linuxIt works as normal headphones but the individual chat and game audio channels don't work. I had tried Linux a while ago and got them working but I can't remember how I did.
Cant download it Cant download itu/Creative-Panda6310•3 days agoCant download it
About drivers for new build About drivers for new buildu/Weebounet•5 days agoAbout drivers for new buildInstall HelpHello,I'm about to build a new PC and I want to install Linux Mint, which I've tried on my old hardware. I have some questions about driver installation. For the BIOS, I plan to update it before installing Mint from a USB drive. But how do I update the chipset and other drivers that I find on the web page for my motherboard, the MSI B850 Gaming Plus WiFi? The processor is a Ryzen 7800X3D and the graphics card is an RTX 5070 Ti, if that helps. Is there anything else I should do? Thanks.
Two years in and still going great. Two years in and still going great.u/impuce•4 days agoTwo years in and still going great.
I Need help for my dad pc I Need help for my dad pcu/leo-si•5 days agoI Need help for my dad pcSo i installed Linux Mint on my dad pc It runs very well and its and old PC but i d'ont know how change the wallpaper into a photo e want tò add in the wallpaper of the PC. Can you guys help me?
I have a problem I have a problemu/Ok_Condition_9639•3 days agoI have a problem
Installed Linux Mint alongside Windows 11, when I boot it goes directly into Mint and doesn't let me choose OS Installed Linux Mint alongside Windows 11, when I boot it goes directly into Mint and doesn't let me choose OSu/glez_fdezdavila_•6 days agoInstalled Linux Mint alongside Windows 11, when I boot it goes directly into Mint and doesn't let me choose OSSupport RequestAs title says, I had Windows 11 in a 1tb nvme drive, created a partition to install Linux Mint, but when I boot it goes directly into Linux Mint and doesn't let me choose Windows, what do I do? I already uncommented the line that says "grub-disable-os-prober" set it to false, updated grub but it still not working
[Guide] How to limit your system log size [Guide] How to limit your system log sizeu/hoaian_02•2 days ago[Guide] How to limit your system log sizeGuideI want to share a simple tip with new Linux Mint users to help keep your system logs under control.Basically, there is a background process that logs everything happening on your computer. Over time, these logs can grow to several gigabytes.Here is how you can make it auto remove old log files when it reach the limit.Open the configuration file Open the terminal and use vim or nano to open the journald config file.sudo vim /etc/systemd/journald.conf2. Set the size limit Find the line that looks like this:#SystemMaxUse=Remove the # (uncomments the line to make it active) and add your preferred size limit. For example: 100MBSystemMaxUse=100M3. Save and Apply Save the file and exit the editor. This will apply after a reboot but you can make it take effect immediately.sudo systemctl restart systemd-journald
sudo apt upgrade not working. no idea what i'm looking at, help! sudo apt upgrade not working. no idea what i'm looking at, help!u/GGMrCrow•6 days agosudo apt upgrade not working. no idea what i'm looking at, help!Support Requestcensored the numbers that appeared in IP because yea. I don't think they're tied to me but again... i've no idea what anything is, so better be safe
Ubuntu Login Screen on Mint 22.3 Ubuntu Login Screen on Mint 22.3u/redbikemaster•6 days agoUbuntu Login Screen on Mint 22.3SOLVEDSOLVED, I guess? Seems it needed a full reboot after installingslick-greeterand not just logging out and back in.Like it says, I have a login screen that looks like Ubuntu. This computer has never had Ubuntu. I have only ever had Mint on here. I built this PC in July 2024 and installed the then-current Mint version, and have just upgraded it. It used to have the proper login screen but changed to this after a version upgrade, can't remember which. Wasn't the most recent one.On a possibly related note, the "Login Window" settings app would ask for password, then nothing would happen.I manually installedslick-greeteras I saw somewhere that was needed. This got Login Window to launch but it has no effect on the login screen.sudo dpkg-reconfigure lightdmdoes nothing.ls -l /usr/share/xsessions/gives:-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 268 Jan 25 06:23 cinnamon2d.desktop-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 155 Jan 25 06:23 cinnamon.desktopAll help is immensely appreciated.
Didn't know it was that easy to replace Cinnamon with XFCE which is lighter on my old Dell laptop Didn't know it was that easy to replace Cinnamon with XFCE which is lighter on my old Dell laptopu/MarcusSodenburg•14 days agoDidn't know it was that easy to replace Cinnamon with XFCE which is lighter on my old Dell laptopDesktop Screenshot
virtual machine virtual machineu/Flat-Management-8841•6 days agovirtual machineSupport Requestvirtual machiner/linuxmint•6 days agovirtual machineHi, im a new linux mint user .I'm trying to set a virtual machine with win11 for school, already tried kvm/qemu and virtual box but failed any poiters?im running a potato optiplex 30402upvotes·14comments
Mum pc fails to boot after update Mum pc fails to boot after updateu/Anana_hiss•7 days agoMum pc fails to boot after updateSOLVED
I love minty so made minty the menu icon I love minty so made minty the menu iconu/TheAutistSupreme•15 days agoI love minty so made minty the menu icon#LinuxMintThings
Security and speed improvements are on the way for network manager Security and speed improvements are on the way for network manageru/Itchy_Ruin_352•3 days agoSecurity and speed improvements are on the way for network managerYay!The long-awaited support for 6GHz Wi-Fi now seems to be coming to Network Manager 1.56*https://gitlab.freedesktop.org/NetworkManager/NetworkManager/-/commit/9199c56f505703cb5451c44bb7107db8c62f9bd1What is this good for?* In the 6GHz band, only WIFI7 support, i.e. WPA3 among other things, was implemented as standard. This means that inexperienced users cannot select an insecure mode such as WPA2, nor should attackers be able to successfully carry out downgrade attacks in this frequency band.* Experience shows that the 6 GHz frequency band is usually completely empty and unused.It is possible that a few other noticeable GUI errors in the network manager will also be fixed in the future.Let us look ahead.
feels like im a kid discovering windows movie maker again feels like im a kid discovering windows movie maker againu/First_Dust2975•10 days agofeels like im a kid discovering windows movie maker again#LinuxMintThings
Question about dual boot and moving windows down to second nvme spot. Question about dual boot and moving windows down to second nvme spot.u/cyberfrog777•5 days agoQuestion about dual boot and moving windows down to second nvme spot.SOLVEDI'm about install my first Linux os (mint). I have an itx system with two nvme spots. I plan on trying to make Linux my mainly used one and keep windows for work specific apps and the odd game that doesn't work on Linux. Therefore, id like to have Linux on the nvme slot that is on top of the mobo with a heat shield, and move the windows one to the back which is just cooled by air. After setting boot priority in the bios, can I boot into the old windows drive like nothing happened or do I have to reinstall windows?
shring the setupp! shring the setupp!u/Disastrous_Guava_664•16 days agoshring the setupp!Desktop Screenshot
How to upgrade to Mint Zena How to upgrade to Mint Zenau/West_Iron1456•1 mo. agoHow to upgrade to Mint ZenaGuide
How to get Glaze & Nightshade programs to work on Mint? How to get Glaze & Nightshade programs to work on Mint?u/Munjister_177•2 days agoHow to get Glaze & Nightshade programs to work on Mint?Support RequestFor context, Glaze and Nightshade are programs that add noise filters over any uploaded art so that certain programs cannot get the style from it (the simplest explanation I can think of, sorry! 😣)I know that it works on Windows, but I’m not sure if the same works for Linux Mint, so I’m just want some advice/help before I go any further.
Counter-Strike 2 massive framepacing issues lately Counter-Strike 2 massive framepacing issues latelyu/4Klassic•6 days agoCounter-Strike 2 massive framepacing issues latelySOLVEDI've been using mint for over like a year or more and Cs2 always was very consistent regarding frame times aside of the blips on the overlay when you die or a new round start.Yesterday it started to be a mess, framepacing issues wasn't noticeable in the overlay but you could tell something was wrong.Switching from borderlands to windowed remedied the issue, but I was hunting for a solution for my rx 6700 xt.I don't think it makes to mentioned that I've tried multiple things like enforcing x11 through game launch (despite i do use x11) and restarting the game, the pc etc..Turns out the issue was surprisingly related with the new kernel.I was using the hwe 6.14 and I've updated yesterday to the 6.17 and for some reason cs2 have this behavior. Rolling back to the unsupported 6.14 solved immediately while going back to the 6.17 caused the issue again.so I just rolled back to the lts kernel (6.8) given i do use a old zen 2 cpu so I'm fine with that and everything works.Just wanted to leave this in here in case you did upgrade to the 6.17 and you finding that something is odd with your rdna2 GPU.cheers
The dual mode option isn't showing up for me! The dual mode option isn't showing up for me!u/Cherie_09•7 days agoThe dual mode option isn't showing up for me!SOLVED
Linux mint not detecting external monitor via HDMI → VGA Linux mint not detecting external monitor via HDMI → VGAu/eren1406•6 days agoLinux mint not detecting external monitor via HDMI → VGALinux not detecting external monitor via HDMI → VGALaptop: Lenovo IdeaPad 320CPU/GPU: Intel i3 6th gen (Intel HD 520)RAM: 8 GBOS: Linux Mint (Cinnamon & Xfce)Kernel: 6.8.0-60-genericConnection: HDMI → VGA adapterIssue:External monitor not detected.xrandr shows:HDMI-1 disconnectedAny help would be appreciated thanks
Is there any way to go from Linux Mint Cinnamon to a different Linux distro using only the Root terminal, and no USB drive? Is there any way to go from Linux Mint Cinnamon to a different Linux distro using only the Root terminal, and no USB drive?u/SeaType4964•6 days agoIs there any way to go from Linux Mint Cinnamon to a different Linux distro using only the Root terminal, and no USB drive?Install HelpI'm not a very big nerd, but I've always been curious if this is possible, and now it has some use, as my Linux Mint Cinnamon build gave up and stopped working entirely, and yes, I've tried basically everything, plus I wasn't a fan of Mint, and I don't have a USB drive, only my singular existing NVMe drive. Obviously I could buy one, and I will have to if there isn't a way to, but if there's a chain of commands you can do to essentially switch Linux distros, even if losing all of your files, that would be so nice. Thanks!
it is not designed for that, but it worked it is not designed for that, but it workedu/squizzy___•2 days agoit is not designed for that, but it workedDesktop Screenshot
XD XDu/Jopx_6•2 days agoXD
anyone know why i cant get 144hz ?? im very new to mint anyone know why i cant get 144hz ?? im very new to mintu/a_yr0n•22 days agoanyone know why i cant get 144hz ?? im very new to mint
I love Linux but Nvidia is a weakness I love Linux but Nvidia is a weaknessu/No-Blueberry-1823•5 days agoI love Linux but Nvidia is a weaknessSupport RequestGranted this is 12-year-old hardware but I was trying to get my old Dell laptop with an Nvidia card to connect to a TV. The mouse would not go from the Dell to the TV. I played around with driver updates and now Linux isn't starting. I'm sure I can probably boot into recovery mode and revert something but ugh(update) please I don't need the Nvidia politics. It's an 12 year old laptop that I purchased new. I know that the company sucks but times were different back then when I bought the laptop. Plus one of the selling points of Linux is that it's compatible with stuff more than windows
Open Source Nvidia drivers not working? Open Source Nvidia drivers not working?u/Worried_Ad_2696•6 days agoOpen Source Nvidia drivers not working?Support RequestHello,Im having some issues running the Nouvea drivers. I switched of Nvidia drivers as I kept having odd crashes in a game that pointed to drivers possibly being the issue. However I cant run my monitor at the full resoltuion. The option isnt even there in the display settings.This is what inxi -Gx gives meGraphics:Device-1: NVIDIA AD102 [GeForce RTX 4090] vendor: ASUSTeK driver: nouveauv: kernel arch: Lovelace bus-ID: 01:00.0Device-2: AMD Raphael vendor: ASUSTeK driver: amdgpu v: kernelarch: RDNA-2 bus-ID: 6e:00.0 temp: 36.0 CDevice-3: Anker PowerConf C200driver: hid-generic,snd-usb-audio,usbhid,uvcvideo type: USB bus-ID: 3-5:6Display: x11 server:X.Orgv: 21.1.11 with: Xwayland v: 23.2.6 driver: X:loaded: amdgpu,modesetting unloaded: fbdev,vesa dri: zink gpu: nouveauresolution: 3840x1080~120HzAPI: EGL v: 1.5 drivers: radeonsi,swrast,zink platforms:active: gbm,x11,surfaceless,device inactive: waylandAPI: OpenGL v: 4.6 compat-v: 4.5 vendor: mesa v: 25.2.8-0ubuntu0.24.04.1glx-v: 1.4 direct-render: yes renderer: zink Vulkan 1.4(NVIDIA GeForce RTX4090 (NVK AD102) (MESA_NVK))API: Vulkan v: 1.3.275 drivers: N/A surfaces: xcb,xlib devices: 3Xorg Log seems to indicate that its cluing in on my iGPU rather than my dedicated GPU.Any ideas why that might be the case?Im in the Cinnamon DE and Im not sure if it means anything that Wayland is mentioned in my inxi.
I'm surprised how easy the switch was I'm surprised how easy the switch wasu/Altruistic_Face_2551•18 days agoI'm surprised how easy the switch wasI remember I tried and failed to switch to linux about 15 years ago when I was in college.  It was just too much of a hassle for me at the time and I missed the comfort of windows.Fast forward to now, I'm getting fed up with Windows and want to try something new. I decided to give Mint a try, preparing for days of pain and expecting to eventually switch back to Windows, but so far it's been an absolute breeze.  All my hardware worked instantly. I was able to get all the software I needed running just fine.  All my games work fine.  I think within a couple hours, I already had everything I needed.I've even started messing around with scripting some QoL changes and it all works great.  I'm eager to see what else I can discover with this OS. So far I have not missed Windows for even a second, I'm just wondering why I didn't try this sooner.
Ajuda com temas (e talvez extensões) Ajuda com temas (e talvez extensões)u/aytodygread•6 days agoAjuda com temas (e talvez extensões)Alguém pode me ajudar explicando como que eu faco pra deixar as janelas assim?
Mint installation on computer already running CachyOS and Win11 with Limine bootloader. How do I skip GRUB during install? Mint installation on computer already running CachyOS and Win11 with Limine bootloader. How do I skip GRUB during install?u/DomeSlave•2 days agoMint installation on computer already running CachyOS and Win11 with Limine bootloader. How do I skip GRUB during install?First I installed Win11 on disk #1Than CachyOS on disk #2, which installed the Limine bootloader, this works fine.Now I want to also install Mint on disk #2, skip the GRUB install so my bootloader doesn't get messed up.The idea is to add Mint in the Limine bootloader by using CachyOS after the Mint installation.
Weird Gesture Behavior Weird Gesture Behavioru/digitalfawn•6 days agoWeird Gesture BehaviorSupport RequestI'm a new Mint user, and I've come across a problem where the touchpad gestures I configured don't work in my browser (I have the native version of Brave). On my desktop, I can three finger tap to pause media, but in Brave, a three finger tap closes the tab. It's the same with other gestures. Three finger swipes skip or replay tracks, but not on Brave. Is there any workaround or solution I'm missing?EDIT: Did some more testing and it seems that gestures are just spotty all around. Sometimes they work, more often they don't. Idk
Linux Mint Vulkan Issues Linux Mint Vulkan Issuesu/DegEneRaTe-Idiot•2 days agoLinux Mint Vulkan IssuesSupport RequestHi, recently switched to linux mint but it made video and performance worse, really not sure what to do and getting desperate. Attached in the other pic are my specs
Got locked Got lockedu/Willing_Tutor_5557•6 days agoGot lockedSupport RequestSo i bought a Thinkpad gen5 amd like a week ago, I installed Linux and moved all my files to the new laptop from the old laptop. It asked for a password for the drive while installing and I set it up. After two days my laptop showed me notification that low space on the boot so I changed the storage to ssd and switched off the laptop. When I turned back on it asks for a password and accepts it and that’s it, just the linux mint logo forever. I enquired about this to AI it suggested me lot of ways to solve but no uses. Since I managed to sign in with a usb drive with the help of Rufus app, now I have my files in my laptop encrypted. I couldn’t do anything, all I want is my files and I want to have my laptop as it was before. What should I do now? Appreciate the help!
Lint Mint: Display Resolution on 1600X900, how do I expand the menu back to the orginal size Lint Mint: Display Resolution on 1600X900, how do I expand the menu back to the orginal sizeu/chocobabychibi15•6 days agoLint Mint: Display Resolution on 1600X900, how do I expand the menu back to the orginal sizeSupport Request
Finally switched to linux. Finally switched to linux.u/kame-sotz-zu•28 days agoFinally switched to linux.
Streaming audio causing stuttering and looping Streaming audio causing stuttering and loopingu/nugherder•6 days agoStreaming audio causing stuttering and loopingSupport RequestRecently installed Mint, and it was working just fine until very recently.  Streaming video starts stuttering and hanging, audio will continuously loop a few seconds (and video will run smoothly if audio is muted).It happened once or twice previously, but a reboot fixed it.  Happened again last night, and this was unsuccessful.  Turning on hardware acceleration in Firefox corrected it, but this morning the issue is back.  I've seen a few suggestions, and have been playing around but have had no luck.Admittedly, I am using an old laptop, which could be the problem (Mint can be quite heavy?  I'd consider moving to a lighter installation) but I'm a bit confused as to why it's just started being an issue.Any help would be greatly appreciated.System infohere, currently using Firefox
my cat ! my cat !u/First_Dust2975•3 days agomy cat !Desktop Screenshot
I love my Mint 22.3 I love my Mint 22.3u/eOLiA2n•1 mo. agoI love my Mint 22.3Desktop Screenshot
Its not just a distro it becoming my daily driver Its not just a distro it becoming my daily driveru/Good-Reveal6779•22 days agoIts not just a distro it becoming my daily driverDiscussion
How often does a new kernel break something working in an older one? How often does a new kernel break something working in an older one?u/Maleficent-Sun-7152•5 days agoHow often does a new kernel break something working in an older one?DiscussionI love Mint so far, and I am relatively new to Linux.When I first installed Mint, I had the 6.8 kernel. Everything was fine, except for games. The games would just freeze - but not the system.Updating to 6.14 fixed the issue.But now, after updating to 6.17, the issue is back. I already rolled back to 6.14, but I am not used to a newer version of something breaking something that was working. Is that common?
Touchpad Problem Touchpad Problemu/Ok-Software-586•2 days agoTouchpad ProblemHi everyone, I hope you're all well.I'm using Linux Mint XFce 22.3, and the problem is that when I'm using the touchpad normally with just one finger, everything works perfectly. But when I place my finger on the click button, the cursor feels laggy or freezes. The same thing happens with windows. When I move a window with the mouse, if I double-click it with the touchpad and start moving it, it's fast and everything is fine, but when I move the window using the mouse and the touchpad, it feels sluggish and laggy. This has never happened to me in Windows. Any solutions?My laptop is a Toshiba Satellite Radius E45w-C4200x and my specifications are:Intel i3 5015U6GB RAM488GB HDDIntel HD Graphics 5500
I love how computers used to look like before flat boring UI so i made my desktop like this I love how computers used to look like before flat boring UI so i made my desktop like thisu/Good-Reveal6779•18 days agoI love how computers used to look like before flat boring UI so i made my desktop like thisDiscussion
Comandos nao funcionam Comandos nao funcionamu/Acrobatic-End3965•6 days agoComandos nao funcionamAlguem pode me ajudar? acabei de começar no linux e nao consigo fazer nada no terminal, ele sempre fala que nao reconhece os comandos, ate o apt.
Bluescreen on an acer laptop during installation Bluescreen on an acer laptop during installationu/ilovemybtflgf•6 days agoBluescreen on an acer laptop during installationSupport RequestAcer nitro 5 AN515-55 to be percise.I wanted to dual boot mint with win10, I partitioned my second ssd for mint, created a live usb and then problems started popping up:mint live USB couldn't see any drives beside the pendriveI dug around on mint forum and saw that changing sata mode to ACHI would fix the problem. Did that, turned off secure boot, hit F10 and then... Bluescreen.Laptop bluescreened twice before it figured out something was wrong and brought me into the repair thingy, I changed sata mode back to optane/raid and didn't touch anything ever since (it works fortunately)I read on the forums that acer is somehow connected to microsoft and is making linux extremely hard to installIs there any way to make this work without copying and pasting command lines for 5 hours where one small mistake could nuke my pc? Thanks in advance
repositories and updates repositories and updatesu/dposse•6 days agorepositories and updatesDiscussionhi! I have a wine repository enabled that i got from the winehq website. If i were to disable the repository would updates to wine come from the software manager?
Linux Mint 22.3 "Zena" что нового, и как пользоваться? Linux Mint 22.3 "Zena" что нового, и как пользоваться?u/Beneficial-Length867•6 days agoLinux Mint 22.3 "Zena" что нового, и как пользоваться?Linux Mint 22.3, кодовое имя«Zena», — это новаястабильная версияпопулярного дистрибутива Linux Mint, ориентированного на удобство использования. Она выпущена в январе 2026 года и является последним обновлением серииLinux Mint 22.x, которая будет поддерживатьсядо 2029 годакакLTS-выпуск(долгосрочная поддержка).Эта версия основана наUbuntu 24.04.3 LTSи поставляется с ядромLinux 6.14, что обеспечивает совместимость с современным оборудованием и стабильную работу большинства систем.Дистрибутив доступен в трёх редакциях:Cinnamon— основная и самая функциональная;MATE;Xfce— лёгкие и стабильные рабочие среды.🆕 Что нового в Linux Mint 22.3 «Zena»🎨 Интерфейс и рабочий столRedesigned Mint Menu (Меню приложений)Новое меню с тремя колонками, значки категорий сталисимволическими (XApp Symbolic Icons);Поиск теперь находится внизу, а панель с избранными и аватаром пользователя стала более наглядной;Опции меню настраиваются (положение поиска, вид значков).Cinnamon 6.6Улучшенная поддержка клавиатур, языка и вводимых методов;Улучшенный экранный клавиатурный ввод;Более чистый и понятный интерфейс по всему рабочему столу.📂 Файлы, копирование, инструментыНемо (файловый менеджер)Возможностьприостанавливать и возобновлять операции копирования/перемещения;Поиск срегулярными выражениями (regex);Улучшенная индексация и отображение иконок.TimeshiftПоддерживаетпаузы при создании или восстановлении снимков системы.🛠 Новые утилиты и улучшенияSystem InformationНовый инструмент для просмотра подробной информации о системе (BIOS, GPU, USB, PCI и др.).System AdministrationУтилита для конфигурации загрузчика, времени запуска, параметров ядра из графического интерфейса (без терминала).WarpinatorПоддержкаIPv6и теперь можно отправлятьтекстовые сообщениямежду устройствами.Update ManagerПоказывает индикатор, что требуетсяперезагрузка после обновлений.🔧 Поддержка оборудования и ядроИспользуетсяядро Linux 6.14для лучшей совместимости с новым железом.Возможность выбратьHWE-ядро 6.17для более новых устройств.💡 Основные преимущества✅ Простота и стабильность для новичков и продвинутых пользователей.✅ LTS-поддержка до 2029 г.✅ Улучшенный интерфейс и удобство повседневной работы.✅ Новые системные утилиты упрощают администрирование.❗ Возможные замечания⚠️ Обновление не кардинальное — этов основном улучшения существующего функционала, а не революция.⚠️ Некоторые пользователи сообщают локальныенебольшие баги после обновления(например, проблемы с индикатором батареи или с панелью).⚠️ Поддержка Wayland всё ещёэкспериментальнаяи не рекомендуется как основная на данный момент.📦 Как установить или обновить🚀 С нуляСкачайте ISO с официального сайта Linux Mint.Запишите его на USB-накопитель (например, черезEtcherилиRufus).Загрузитесь с USB и следуйте инструкциям по установке.🔄 Обновление с Linux Mint 22.2ОткройтеUpdate Manager.НажмитеRefresh(Обновить).Выберите «Upgrade to 22.3» (если доступно).Примените обновления и перезагрузите.💡 Перед обновлением рекомендуется сделатьрезервную копию системы(например, используя Timeshift), чтобы можно было откатиться при необходимости.🧑‍💻 Как пользоваться новым меню и функциям🎯 Настройка нового меню CinnamonКликните по кнопке меню (обычно в левом нижнем углу).Правой кнопкой мыши вызовитеPreferencesдля настройки видимых элементов.ВSettingsможно менять положение панели поиска, и стиль значков.🏁 ИтогLinux Mint 22.3 «Zena» — это качественный и стабильный шаг вперёд в рамках серии 22.x, с улучшениями интерфейса, новыми инструментами и большим вниманием к удобству пользователя. Это отличный выбор для рабочих станций, домашних ПК и офисных машин, особенно для тех, кто ценитпростоту, стабильность и долгосрочную поддержку.
Linux Mint Booting to a Blank Screen Linux Mint Booting to a Blank Screenu/Electricalbird381•6 days agoLinux Mint Booting to a Blank ScreenSOLVED
Linux ready laptop Linux ready laptopu/nmc52•3 days agoLinux ready laptopI'm based in Scandinavia. I'm buying Chinese (Lenovo) or European only. No Apple, no US branded.I'd appreciate suggestions for a new laptop thatdoesn't come with Windows installedcomes with at least 32 gb RAMat least 1 tb SSDAMD graphics with as much memory as possiblewill run Linux.I don't care if the keyboard layout isn't Scandinavian, I touch type.I'll use it for everything, the most taxing will be running DaVinci Resolve.
What caused this? What caused this?u/xsniperkajanx•6 days agoWhat caused this?Support Request
i love this desktop i love this desktopu/First_Dust2975•9 days agoi love this desktopDesktop Screenshot
Font restoration Font restorationu/BilalDoesMC•6 days agoFont restorationSupport Request
Just installed Lenox cinnamon 22.3 Just installed Lenox cinnamon 22.3u/Thomas20350•2 days agoJust installed Lenox cinnamon 22.3
Help deleting Windows!!! Help deleting Windows!!!u/Furfu•7 days agoHelp deleting Windows!!!Support RequestNot long ago I double booted my pc to try out Linux by keeping Windows on my main 1TB drive and installing Mint on my other 500gb drive. Long story short, Mint has turned into my main OS and my drive is now running out of space, and since I haven´t been using Windows I now want to delete it to make space for Mint. Since the partition is set on another drive I'm not sure as to how to clean windows from the ssd and assign the new it to Mint, all the tutorials I've seen explain how to do this process with Rescuezilla but with a single drive.I'm a noob so if anyone knows how to work this out it would really come in handy
I don't know if I'm liking it. I don't know if I'm liking it.u/BoxFar6969•13 days agoI don't know if I'm liking it.Discussion
Can I rename connected devices? Can I rename connected devices?u/UNA_ARANCIA•2 days agoCan I rename connected devices?Support RequestI have a Fortrek mouse and i was trying to configure it using its own app, and while i got the app to open, the app cant detect the mouse because it has a different name. Is there any way I can rename the mouse?
Nvme mount location Nvme mount locationu/Laincell•4 days agoNvme mount locationSupport RequestJust started using linux full time today and have a question about my secondary nvme ssd ! Ive formated it to be ext4 and hot swap is disabled in my bios, yet its still considered as a removable drive because its mounting in /media/user. What would be a good place to change its mounting to and would it effect any directories like steam games? Sorry if this is a common or simple question but thank you for any help ^_^
Sound Soundu/Flat_Psychology8486•2 days agoSoundSo i have to imagine im not the only person having this issue. i recently switched to linux mint from windows and its been great but the one thing causing me issues is that my sound will randomly stop working. What do i do to fix this???
Finally replaced Windows with Linux Mint Finally replaced Windows with Linux Mint[deleted]•28 days agoFinally replaced Windows with Linux MintDesktop Screenshot
All games feel like they are running on 60hz All games feel like they are running on 60hzu/Rich_Ad7325•6 days agoAll games feel like they are running on 60hzSupport RequestHello everybody, i come here with an issue (probably something stupid). I just jumped from windows 11 (because it kept randomly crashing) to Linux Mint. Everything runs fine and to be honest so far i'm loving this system, but doesn't matter what game i play it feels like it's running on around 60hz. So far tested minecraft (with mods and without), Kingdom Come Deliverance and Marvel Rivals. Every single game gets 120+fps but it feels as choppy as it were running on said 60hz.I use 2 monitors, main is 2k 180hz, secondary (mostly for youtube and discord) is 1080p 100hz. I set both refresh rates to what they should be in settings.Nothing changes if i plug out the 100hz screen.On the desktop it seems like everything runs as intended, 180hz and such.My specs:I5 14600kfRX 680032gb DDR4 3200mhzAny clue what could be going on? All fixes i've seen are Nvidia gpu specific.I'm willing to provide all the info i didn't include, i just don't know what is important as i've never really used linux.Also, if someone already posted something simillar with a fix, feel free to redirect me there.
Can I boot withGrub without dual boot Can I boot withGrub without dual bootu/EpikButteredBread•2 days agoCan I boot withGrub without dual bootSOLVEDThis might be dumb, but I just liked some theme so ye. eushejse, I will probably get dual boot later anyways, not with windows tho.You can probably see I do not know much about this.
Bluetooth problem Bluetooth problemu/acrobatpirate•6 days agoBluetooth problemSupport RequestI switched the Linux. Now everytime I launch my PC I have to unplug and plug my Bluetooth device to just for my PC to see it. Can someone help me?
My orthodontist uses Mint My orthodontist uses Mintu/Ok_Asparagus_2195•27 days agoMy orthodontist uses MintHe showed me photos of my teeth while I was sitting in the dental chair, and I noticed that he had Linux Mint installed on his laptop. Now I know that these photos won't end up on Microsoft's servers:/
Would zswap be good for my laptop's performance? Would zswap be good for my laptop's performance?u/Dependent-Hamster361•6 days agoWould zswap be good for my laptop's performance?My specs:Model: 320-15IAP Laptop (ideapad) - Type 80XRBrand: LenovoOS: Linux Mint XFCECPU: Intel® Celeron® N3350 Processor(N3350)GPU: Intel HD 500RAM: 4GB DDR3L 1600HDD: 1TB 5400 (900GB Storage)
Can I boot withGrub without dual boot Can I boot withGrub without dual bootu/EpikButteredBread•2 days agoCan I boot withGrub without dual bootSOLVEDThis might be dumb, but I just liked some theme so ye. eushejse, I will probably get dual boot later anyways, not with windows tho.You can probably see I do not know much about this.
Switched from Windows 11 and I'm frustrated Switched from Windows 11 and I'm frustratedu/Desperate_Ad_6718•12 days agoSwitched from Windows 11 and I'm frustratedSOLVEDNot a native English speakerI've been using Windows my whole life, but recently I got tired of how unstable and bloated it is, so I decided to switch to Linux. I deliberately chose one of the most user-friendly distributions. But apparently, that doesn't mean it is user-friendly in general.When I installed the distro for the first time, I was pleasantly surprised by how beautiful and sleek the GUI looked. However, the first impression was misleading. I did some minor tinkering and cosmetic changes, installed drivers using the Driver Manager, and installed a few programs from the Software Manager. Then I rebooted the system, and the nightmare began. First of all, the system itself took up to three minutes to load. Then, whenever I tried to open an application such as Discord or Telegram, I had to wait 20–30 seconds before it finally launched. For some reason, YouTube videos take about two minutes to load and start playing around the 30-second mark of the video. I was annoyed, but not broken.A particular problem is the audio drivers. Every time I turned the headphone volume down to 10%, they abruptly stopped playing. Apps like Discord didn’t work with the microphone and headphones at all at first, and after reinstalling the app, they stopped recognizing any audio devices entirely.I decided to reinstall the operating system, and it helped for a while, but after two reboots the problem recurred, and I don’t know what to do next.Linux Mint 22.3Neofetch output:https://snipboard.io/lbGMOa.jpgdmsg:https://nopaste.net/yAcUAVo93Sjournalctl:https://nopaste.net/GDOipHm7qasystemd-analyze critical-chain:https://nopaste.net/qE3U4NVI4HSolved. So after some users adviced to search for the logs above I decided to show them to ChatGPT and he found the root cause of the problem. It's a HARDWARE issue. I've encountered sudden USB disconnections on Windows before. On Linux, this problem manifests itself in a different form. This single device caused system-wide I/O stalls and cascaded failures across PipeWire, systemd and user applications. Rebooting the system with USB devices disconnected helped to confirm that this was the problem. As a workaround I'm going to plug-in my devices after the OS has fully loadedTL;DRThe root cause of random freezes, huge delays, browser hangs and extremely slow shutdown was amisbehaving USB device using thecdc_etherdriver.This single device caused system-wide I/O stalls and cascaded failures across PipeWire, systemd and user applications.
Linux Mint is not detecting the Zinnia MT100 graphics tablet? Linux Mint is not detecting the Zinnia MT100 graphics tablet?u/Such-Employer-2564•6 days agoLinux Mint is not detecting the Zinnia MT100 graphics tablet?SOLVEDI have this tablet for ages now, it always worked on windows but I recently switched to mint...I have tried using X11, downloading OpenTabletDriver, using xsetwacom commands and it simply does not detect my digital tablet... I don't know what to do anymore, would be great if someone could help me overcome this problem, thank you in advance
Best way to manually partition a disk to keep /home separate Best way to manually partition a disk to keep /home separateu/iamyoy•6 days agoBest way to manually partition a disk to keep /home separateHi everyone,I’m planning my next Linux Mint installation and I’d like to manually partition my disk so that /home is on a separate partition.I usually just go with the automatic installer, so manual partitioning still makes me a bit unsure. My goal is to make future reinstalls or upgrades easier without touching my personal files.I’m mainly wondering:What partition layout do you recommend for Mint? (/, /home, swap)Is swap still necessary, or is a swap file enough?Any common mistakes to avoid when separating /home?Should I use ext4 for everything, or is there a better option for /home?I’d appreciate any advice or examples of how you usually do it.Thanks in advance!
Dual boot systems : Windows Secure Boot update coming Dual boot systems : Windows Secure Boot update comingu/BogaMoge•2 days agoDual boot systems : Windows Secure Boot update comingDiscussionCan anyone more versed in Linux confirm that Microsoft won't mess up dual boot systems with their planned Secure Boot update?https://www.engadget.com/computing/microsoft-will-start-refreshing-secure-boot-certificates-in-march-for-windows-11-and-windows-10-esu-users-170000777.html?src=rss
No sound at all No sound at allu/NerraFall•6 days agoNo sound at allSupport RequestHello everyone, i made a post on the forums as well but  decided to make one here too hoping it will be quicker! Im currently having a sound issue where (even if its a headphone) i have no sound at all, pulseaudio shows that audio is playing even though it isnt, i did follow the guide on the mint forums but to no results, (Reinstalling drivers, alva etc) is there a fix for this? Im on a Steam Deck LCD (512gb)
Lightest WM? Lightest WM?u/kenmoffat•6 days agoLightest WM?DiscussionWhat is the lightest window manager or desktop environment? I need to install on very slow hardware. Thanks.
I made the Switch! I made the Switch!u/Cverellen•25 days agoI made the Switch!I have been using Windows since the 80's. I finally updated my computer after 8 years. At work we are using Windows 11, but the Enterprise Edition, and it doesn't have any of the advertisement and information harvesting the "individual" edition has. I was shocked.I bought my computer a the end of August 2025 and it worked fine but it was just weird how much data harvesting there was. I have been eyeing Linux for years but just could find the reason to make the jump. Well invasion in privacy and the constant trying to sell cloud and office services was enough. I remember when the office basics were just part of the windows package. the fact I would have to pay yearly for products that really haven't changed since the early 2000's was very frustrating.I have been using Mint for a couple of week and recently updated from 22.2 to 22.3. I am still new and fumbling my way through the processes, but I am stating to get the feel of it more and more with every day of using it. I am very happy.In just my short period of time of using it I see Linux as a game changer for developers if they would recognize it. I am in the infrastructure design business and I can see if Bentley or Blue-beam went and fully dived in that they would be in a position to run away with it.Happy to be here. I have already asked a question, and got a great response, Thank you! I hope to add to this sub.
Boot issue Boot issueu/yetabix420•5 days agoBoot issueSupport Request
Unknown Password Unknown Passwordu/Lava_Mage634•2 days agoUnknown PasswordSOLVEDI just got Mint to boot for the first time and haven't done anything besides customization. I'm still booting out of a flash drive. I tried to change my account password, but there is already a 6 character password. I was not prompted for one nor did I ever enter one. I checked the release notes and it said there isn't a default password, but that doesn't seem to be the case with my system. I've tried to change it pretending it's empty and it fails saying i need a password.This is my first time with Linux and I can't identify if my situation matches the ones in videos I've found. Any help would be appreciated.
A month on Linux Mint - Loving it A month on Linux Mint - Loving itu/yetAnotherBenjii•23 days agoA month on Linux Mint - Loving itDesktop Screenshot
3 months later.... 3 months later....u/inexperiencedminor•18 days ago3 months later....#LinuxMintThings
Curious how many have switched recently Curious how many have switched recentlyu/Jetster220•23 days agoCurious how many have switched recentlyI switched from Windows in the past month, noticing lots of other posts saying the same. kinda wondering just how many have in the past month or so, seems to be a large number.Edit: I still have Windows on a second boot drive, I've booted it a couple times to compare things, and each time I've been like "eewww" why is it so slow and did not miss it at all.
Note for new users Note for new usersu/Venylynn•7 days agoNote for new usersDiscussionOne thing I see often on this sub is recommendations towards things like the Kisak mesa PPA, WineHQ repo, and other third party repositories for kernels like Xanmod and Liquorix. I would suggest new users take those suggestions with extreme caution, as those are extremely risky on a system like Mint. Wherever possible, stick with the base repo, and I highly recommend you use Flatpak if you need a newer version of something.Instead of WineHQ, install ProtonPlus Flatpak and something like Bottles, and go down to the kron4ek section, and use those for your main wine handling. Instead of Mesa PPA, see if there's a backport in the main repository. Stick with officially supported kernel versions, as those have the most testing done.For kernel management, I only recommend 6.8 if you are on an Intel CPU or an older (FX-era) AMD CPU. Ryzen has limited access to power profiles on that version ("performance" is not available on 6.8 for AMD Ryzen), so at least until Mint 23, you gotta stick with the HWE kernels if you want the full power profile stack.
Desktop theme not showing up? Desktop theme not showing up?u/webbedmovi•6 days agoDesktop theme not showing up?SOLVEDRecently installed Mint on my laptop and wanted to change the theme to the old UI Valve used back in the GoldSrc era, however when I added the file to the .theme folder it only added a theming option for the applications and not the desktop. Am I missing something?The theme I downloaded isSteam-2003.
Linux Mint upgrade took less than two minutes! Linux Mint upgrade took less than two minutes!u/RayBuc9882•4 days agoLinux Mint upgrade took less than two minutes!I held off on the upgrade to 22.3 and last night I did it and it took me less than two minutes.  So much faster with the SSD.My previous two Linux computers had HDDs, one with Fedora and another one with Ubantu Mate.  The software updates were slow, but the OS upgrades felt like Windows updates on old machines.
Mintpaper Engine Mintpaper Engineu/TopNepTopKek•20 days agoMintpaper EngineDesktop Screenshot
Wifi/Ethernet - Connection to internet is shaky Wifi/Ethernet - Connection to internet is shakyu/IllManner5566•6 days agoWifi/Ethernet - Connection to internet is shakySupport Requesthey everyone!ive been on mint for some time now, I’ve been loving it, i had some issues but I managed to find some workarounds for it.however, one thing always bugged me, which is that I couldn’t use my 5ghz internet AT ALL because network would just … drop me everytime i tried me.fine for 5 minutes —> drops —> fine for 5 minutes —> dropsi tried using Claude to help me fix it, but it didn’t help at all. i guess this is such a specific problem no one really had this before?i’m using an MSI Thin GF63 12VE laptop, intel 12450H, latest kernel, latest everything.
Cleaned up the mint girl, enjoy. Cleaned up the mint girl, enjoy.u/Selinaru•1 mo. agoCleaned up the mint girl, enjoy.Fluff
Trying to switch to mint from windows and launcher won’t start up…help please Trying to switch to mint from windows and launcher won’t start up…help pleaseu/Inside-Republic6444•4 days agoTrying to switch to mint from windows and launcher won’t start up…help pleaseSOLVED
Remove applications Remove applicationsu/ClearLocation7289•6 days agoRemove applicationsHi everyone, I just installed Mint. I come from Windows and I'm not very familiar with Linux. Can someone explain me how to uninstall unwanted applications? For example, I'd like to remove calculator or Hypnotix, which I would never use. They were preinstalled
Thanks to Linux Mint 18.3 I can use my toaster Thanks to Linux Mint 18.3 I can use my toasteru/Alternative_Sea_7232•21 days agoThanks to Linux Mint 18.3 I can use my toaster
Frozen screen Frozen screenu/Powerful-Worry-5360•4 days agoFrozen screen
My desktop :-) My desktop :-)u/arug200•7 days agoMy desktop :-)
Is it possible to have a custom sound/jingle play during the boot animation? Is it possible to have a custom sound/jingle play during the boot animation?u/tjijntje•2 days agoIs it possible to have a custom sound/jingle play during the boot animation?Support RequestI love all the customisation with the boot animation/logo, but I really want to have a 3 second jingle play during that startup animation, I heared it might be possible but I couldn't find anything I could wrap my head around online. So I once again go back to reddit to ask if this is possible and if so, how do I do it?
AXE3000 USB WIFI up and down since running updates AXE3000 USB WIFI up and down since running updatesu/davidsinnergeek•2 days agoAXE3000 USB WIFI up and down since running updatesSupport RequestI have a desktop running Mint 22.3, it hadn't been on for a couple weeks. booted it up today and let update manager install updates when prompted. I was prompted to reboot after updates were finished. Upon restart I found that my normally rock solid wifi connection was now flaky as hell, disconnecting without rhyme or reason. Not sure what to try first, I may be making my first use of Timeshift.
Wi-Fi issue with new kernel. Wi-Fi issue with new kernel.u/volle90•6 days agoWi-Fi issue with new kernel.SOLVEDMy wi-fi card was not working on my Thinkpad E14 gen7 since kernel update 6.17. Had to revert to 6.14.0-37.Does anyone have the same issue?Also, should i keep using version 6.14 after the support ends or should i use version 6.8 (lts)?Hopefully the wi-fi issue will get resolved!Thanks :)
I’ve got so much to learn, but I’m beginning the journey. I’ve got so much to learn, but I’m beginning the journey.u/PsycheDiver•19 days agoI’ve got so much to learn, but I’m beginning the journey.
Since wiping my computer to make it 100% Linux Mint it is stunningly fast Since wiping my computer to make it 100% Linux Mint it is stunningly fastu/tranquilseafinally•21 days agoSince wiping my computer to make it 100% Linux Mint it is stunningly fastDiscussionIt is booting up quickly.  It is launching programmes quickly.  Not only that, but it is quite noticeable.My games via Steam are loading extremely fast.Previously, I dual booted Linux with Windows 10.  Linux lived on my SATA hard drive.  Windows lived on my SSD.  Now Linux lives on my SSD and all my files are being dealt with by Linux.  And everything is FAST.  Almost like I have a new computer.Amazing.
Back Handed Articles Back Handed Articlesu/Least_Gain5147•7 days agoBack Handed ArticlesDiscussionI'm probably not alone on this, but I'm getting so tired of blogs, videos and newsletters making Linuxmint sound like a beginners toy. Like this article from Jack Wallen at ZDNet..."I'm a Linux power user, and this distro made me rethink what an operating system can be | ZDNET"https://www.zdnet.com/article/nixos-linux-review/He says a very common phrase about wanting a "more robust" Linux distro. What is this galactically-disruptive, earth-shattering, life-affirming thing that needs so muchrobustnessthat poor little Linuxmint just cannot handle? I'm really curious.
USB Issues still persist... USB Issues still persist...u/thatharryhedgehogguy•6 days agoUSB Issues still persist...Support RequestSome time ago I made the switch to Linux to do the truest opt-out of Microsoft's AI integration. But throughout the two distros I've used thus far. All of them have had nothing but dealbreaking issues.First, it was Pop!_OS not giving arat's assabout my drawing tablet, and now... it's Mint deciding... "Mm, you know what?Fuckyour USBs actually."Because despite using thefuckingterminalto turn offUSB Autosuspend.The Mouse and Keyboard... stillfuckin'freeze.I'm completely spent on options. So, I'm here.Can someonePleasetell me what I'm missing?
Genuinely need help Genuinely need helpu/snuganimal3179•9 days agoGenuinely need helpHello,I’m looking for help on installing Slackware Linux on my 2014 21’5 Apple iMac,I’ve been getting the Apple flashing folder Wich basically means no operating systemUpdate:the hard drive failed
Friend is shy and fears the lot of you. Please check these out and help me boost her confidence in the OpenSource community! Friend is shy and fears the lot of you. Please check these out and help me boost her confidence in the OpenSource community!u/paroxp•10 days agoFriend is shy and fears the lot of you. Please check these out and help me boost her confidence in the OpenSource community!Friend is shy and fears the lot of you. Please check these out and help me boost her confidence in the OpenSource community!r/arch•10 days agoFriend is shy and fears the lot of you. Please check these out and help me boost her confidence in the OpenSource community!450upvotes·42comments
How can one man defeat an entire debian team is beyond me. How can one man defeat an entire debian team is beyond me.u/Klutzy_Scheme_9871•11 days agoHow can one man defeat an entire debian team is beyond me.i have this 10 year old NVIDIA GTX 1060 and i simply cannot believe that after 10 years, an entire team of debian developers can't even get this right. i tried installing debian 13, 12, different kernels, different apt installs cuda, kernel-headers, this, that and the other and it doesn't work. on debian13, i now can't even boot into x11 on debian 13 so reinstalled 12 (which boots horrificly slow like slower than openbsd) just to see if i could get that working and nope. 2 kernels are vastly different as well. i've been using linux for 15 years so not a newbie.my suspend to ram does not work with xfce on slackware 15 but it does with KDE. however, i hate KDE so i won't switch. i power off my machine until someone figures out why on xfce it doesnt work but other than that, cant complain about slackware 15 so i guess i'll just have to keep slackin on. i did put debian13 on my t480 laptop and just run kdenlive there since there are ffmpeg issues on slackware 15 (that is why i wanted to switch to debian13 for my desktop) but nope, slackware still wins!Thank you Patrick and Eric!
Back on Slackware after a decade Back on Slackware after a decadeu/Itchy-Lingonberry-90•11 days agoBack on Slackware after a decadeI used Slackware from 4.0 (1999) through 14.1 (2014), then wandered off to a Mac for a while. When I came back to PCs, I landed on Mint and Debian, which have been good homes.Over the years I made a few attempts to come back to Slackware using VirtualBox, but never quite got LILO or ELILO to boot cleanly. After enough false starts, Slackware ended up on the “I’ll come back to this later” pile.Recently, a cousin asked if I could help him learn Linux. I picked up a cheap mini PC on Facebook Marketplace. It's old and slow, but perfect as a learning box. Since we won’t meet for a while, I decided to install Slackware on the existing SSD just to see how it felt again. I’ll put Mint on a newer drive later when I add RAM and prep it for him.With some help, I finally got a clean install of Slackware64-current booting via GRUB. The first attempt was in VirtualBox, and then on bare metal. I’ll admit it felt much easier in the old 32-bit days, but once things clicked, it all came back surprisingly quickly.Some things were familiar muscle memory, some were a bit rusty, but I really enjoyed the process. Actually, I enjoyed it enough that I’m now considering moving this SSD into an old first-gen i7 Toshiba laptop that’s currently running Debian Trixie doing nothing but accumulating uptime. It probably deserves a job.Nice to be back.
Install Slackware with minimal packages but includes networking and support for Xorg. Install Slackware with minimal packages but includes networking and support for Xorg.u/demo4him•12 days agoInstall Slackware with minimal packages but includes networking and support for Xorg.I added to Slackware 15.0 with a minimum of packages but functional for networking and Xorg DEs Gnome-41 and 3.38 install onhttps://github.com/demo4him/slackware-ms
What is this strange screen effect when I start up my VM What is this strange screen effect when I start up my VMu/LordOpress•15 days agoWhat is this strange screen effect when I start up my VM
When trying to slackbuild openvino get complaint about being unable to fetch oneapi-tbb When trying to slackbuild openvino get complaint about being unable to fetch oneapi-tbbu/ArthurPeabody•19 days agoWhen trying to slackbuild openvino get complaint about being unable to fetch oneapi-tbbWhen I run slackbuild I get:Downloading fromhttps://storage.openvinotoolkit.org/dependencies/thirdparty/linux/oneapi-tbb-2021.13.0-lin-release.tgzto /tmp/SBo/openvino-2024.4.1/temp/download/oneapi-tbb-2021.13.0-lin-release.tgz ... -- /usr/bin/wget --no-cache --no-check-certificate --retry-connrefused --waitretry=1 --read-timeout=20 --timeout=15 --tries=5https://storage.openvinotoolkit.org/dependencies/thirdparty/linux/oneapi-tbb-2021.13.0-lin-release.tgzResolving storage.openvinotoolkit.org (storage.openvinotoolkit.org)... failed: Temporary failure in name resolution. wget: unable to resolve host address 'storage.openvinotoolkit.org'However that command works from the command line. oneapi-tbb-2021.13.0-lin-release.tgz is a valid Slackware package that I've already installed, so the build shouldn't have to duplicate that, should it?/tmp/SBo/openvino-2024.4.1/temp/download/oneapi-tbb-2021.13.0-lin-release.tgz is a 0-byte file.  I tried copying it there and making its privileges read-only but slackbuild still overwrites it.
First install. Already in love. First install. Already in love.u/_K10_•20 days agoFirst install. Already in love.
Why have Slackware 11 ISOs been removed from the official server? Why have Slackware 11 ISOs been removed from the official server?u/gargamel1497•20 days agoWhy have Slackware 11 ISOs been removed from the official server?
Slackware in a DOS folder Slackware in a DOS folderu/Intelligent-Rip-2270•21 days agoSlackware in a DOS folderSlackware in a DOS folderr/linuxquestions•21 days agoSlackware in a DOS folderThe first distro I used was Slackware in the 90s, I think it was v. 2.x.  I got a book from a bookstore that included the CD.  Slackware installed into a folder under DOS without making any other changes to the computer.  The install also had you create “boot” and “root” floppies.  The two floppies would boot and load the kernel, then start pulling from the Slackware directory.Does anyone else remember this type of install?  Did any other distros use this method instead of installing to a drive partition?16upvotes·19comments
Xfce4-20 + Slackware 15 Xfce4-20 + Slackware 15u/demo4him•23 days agoXfce4-20 + Slackware 15Xfce4-20 + Slackware 15r/xfce•23 days agoXfce4-20 + Slackware 15135upvotes·9comments
Sadistic pleasure! :) Rock solid...as usual!! Sadistic pleasure! :) Rock solid...as usual!!u/unixbhaskar•25 days agoSadistic pleasure! :) Rock solid...as usual!!
88x31 Slackware button 88x31 Slackware buttonu/476f6f64206a6f6221•1 mo. ago88x31 Slackware buttonHi, I am looking for any and all 88x31 Slackware buttons. I was unable to found any... Do you know if they exist at all?Thanks
slack for shop data server slack for shop data serveru/rsstephens_•1 mo. agoslack for shop data serverputting slack on the data server at work, not much but a couple TB of back ups and a database.  so proud to be installing slack again, seems nerdy but i'm going to give it a test run here at home on an HP stream...been at least 20 years since i have used slackware, I just had to put this out there.
Applying security updates Applying security updatesu/mfising•1 mo. agoApplying security updatesAre security updates meant to be installed manually? I receive the security update alerts via email, but when I check for updates nothing appears.sudo slackpkg updatesudo slackpkg install-newsudo slackpkg upgrade-allUsing the latest curl update as an example, I checked for updates with slackpkg and nothing showed as available. I then ran curl --version and it still showed version 17 installed and the security alert was for 18. So, I downloaded the update and installed it manually with no issues. I certainly don't mind doing it manually, I just wanted to verify that I was not missing something in my process.
Looking for a Linux & Unix Discord Community? Looking for a Linux & Unix Discord Community?u/Quantum-Moron•1 mo. agoLooking for a Linux & Unix Discord Community?Hey everyone,I don't want to waste your time, so I'll keep this short.If you like Unix and tech and you want a place where you can ask questions, share what you are working on, or just talk to other enthusiasts as yourself, we have a Discord server called Unixverse.The server has been active since 2023. We are around 950 members and still growing.We have dedicated channels for most Unix and Linux distributions, plus general spaces for troubleshooting, tools, and broader tech discussions.If that sounds like your kind of community, feel free to drop in and have a look.Server invite link:https://discord.gg/unixverseBackup invite link:https://discord.gg/rjqgaSHWhd
glance on SBo glance on SBou/amonaxos•1 mo. agoglance on SBoI encourage you to try out glance from SBo. Τhe pre-planned .yml file, there is also ther/slackwaremodule, of course after installation you can configure it as you like.
glance on SBo glance on SBou/amonaxos•1 mo. agoglance on SBoglance on SBor/slackware•1 mo. agoglance on SBoI encourage you to try out glance from SBo. Τhe pre-planned .yml file, there is also ther/slackwaremodule, of course after installation you can configure it as you like.13upvotes
No Sound on qemu/kvm virt-manager vm's No Sound on qemu/kvm virt-manager vm'su/MD90__•1 mo. agoNo Sound on qemu/kvm virt-manager vm'sI was built libvirt and virt-manager from ponce repo and so far im able to create virtual machines and such and they boot up I just can't get the sound to work. I'm not sure what I'm doing wrong but there's no sound at all from anything and I just recently tried all the sound options with ich6 ich9 and ac97 and none of them work. I'm not sure what's going but im hoping it's something im just not seeing that's simple. It says in my libvirt config that unix socket is apart of "users" and my user is in "users".  Here's my xml of my debian machine<features><acpi/><apic/></features><cpu mode="host-passthrough" check="none" migratable="on"/><clock offset="utc"><timer name="rtc" tickpolicy="catchup"/><timer name="pit" tickpolicy="delay"/><timer name="hpet" present="no"/></clock><on_poweroff>destroy</on_poweroff><on_reboot>restart</on_reboot><on_crash>destroy</on_crash><pm><suspend-to-mem enabled="no"/><suspend-to-disk enabled="no"/></pm><devices><emulator>/usr/bin/qemu-system-x86_64</emulator><disk type="file" device="disk"><driver name="qemu" type="qcow2" discard="unmap"/><source file="/var/lib/libvirt/images/debian12.qcow2"/><target dev="vda" bus="virtio"/><address type="pci" domain="0x0000" bus="0x04" slot="0x00" function="0x0"/></disk><disk type="file" device="cdrom"><driver name="qemu" type="raw"/><target dev="sda" bus="sata"/><readonly/><address type="drive" controller="0" bus="0" target="0" unit="0"/></disk><controller type="usb" index="0" model="qemu-xhci" ports="15"><address type="pci" domain="0x0000" bus="0x02" slot="0x00" function="0x0"/></controller><controller type="pci" index="0" model="pcie-root"/><controller type="pci" index="1" model="pcie-root-port"><model name="pcie-root-port"/><target chassis="1" port="0x10"/><address type="pci" domain="0x0000" bus="0x00" slot="0x02" function="0x0" multifunction="on"/></controller><controller type="pci" index="2" model="pcie-root-port"><model name="pcie-root-port"/><target chassis="2" port="0x11"/><address type="pci" domain="0x0000" bus="0x00" slot="0x02" function="0x1"/></controller><controller type="pci" index="3" model="pcie-root-port"><model name="pcie-root-port"/><target chassis="3" port="0x12"/><address type="pci" domain="0x0000" bus="0x00" slot="0x02" function="0x2"/></controller><controller type="pci" index="4" model="pcie-root-port"><model name="pcie-root-port"/><target chassis="4" port="0x13"/><address type="pci" domain="0x0000" bus="0x00" slot="0x02" function="0x3"/></controller><controller type="pci" index="5" model="pcie-root-port"><model name="pcie-root-port"/><target chassis="5" port="0x14"/><address type="pci" domain="0x0000" bus="0x00" slot="0x02" function="0x4"/></controller><controller type="pci" index="6" model="pcie-root-port"><model name="pcie-root-port"/><target chassis="6" port="0x15"/><address type="pci" domain="0x0000" bus="0x00" slot="0x02" function="0x5"/></controller><controller type="pci" index="7" model="pcie-root-port"><model name="pcie-root-port"/><target chassis="7" port="0x16"/><address type="pci" domain="0x0000" bus="0x00" slot="0x02" function="0x6"/></controller><controller type="pci" index="8" model="pcie-root-port"><model name="pcie-root-port"/><target chassis="8" port="0x17"/><address type="pci" domain="0x0000" bus="0x00" slot="0x02" function="0x7"/></controller><controller type="pci" index="9" model="pcie-root-port"><model name="pcie-root-port"/><target chassis="9" port="0x18"/><address type="pci" domain="0x0000" bus="0x00" slot="0x03" function="0x0" multifunction="on"/></controller><controller type="pci" index="10" model="pcie-root-port"><model name="pcie-root-port"/><target chassis="10" port="0x19"/><address type="pci" domain="0x0000" bus="0x00" slot="0x03" function="0x1"/></controller><controller type="pci" index="11" model="pcie-root-port"><model name="pcie-root-port"/><target chassis="11" port="0x1a"/><address type="pci" domain="0x0000" bus="0x00" slot="0x03" function="0x2"/></controller><controller type="pci" index="12" model="pcie-root-port"><model name="pcie-root-port"/><target chassis="12" port="0x1b"/><address type="pci" domain="0x0000" bus="0x00" slot="0x03" function="0x3"/></controller><controller type="pci" index="13" model="pcie-root-port"><model name="pcie-root-port"/><target chassis="13" port="0x1c"/><address type="pci" domain="0x0000" bus="0x00" slot="0x03" function="0x4"/></controller><controller type="pci" index="14" model="pcie-root-port"><model name="pcie-root-port"/><target chassis="14" port="0x1d"/><address type="pci" domain="0x0000" bus="0x00" slot="0x03" function="0x5"/></controller><controller type="pci" index="15" model="pcie-root-port"><model name="pcie-root-port"/><target chassis="15" port="0x1e"/><address type="pci" domain="0x0000" bus="0x00" slot="0x03" function="0x6"/></controller><controller type="pci" index="16" model="pcie-to-pci-bridge"><model name="pcie-pci-bridge"/><address type="pci" domain="0x0000" bus="0x07" slot="0x00" function="0x0"/></controller><controller type="sata" index="0"><address type="pci" domain="0x0000" bus="0x00" slot="0x1f" function="0x2"/></controller><controller type="virtio-serial" index="0"><address type="pci" domain="0x0000" bus="0x03" slot="0x00" function="0x0"/></controller><interface type="network"><mac address="52:54:00:71:32:e3"/><source network="default"/><model type="virtio"/><address type="pci" domain="0x0000" bus="0x01" slot="0x00" function="0x0"/></interface><serial type="pty"><target type="isa-serial" port="0"><model name="isa-serial"/></target></serial><console type="pty"><target type="serial" port="0"/></console><channel type="unix"><target type="virtio" name="org.qemu.guest\_agent.0"/><address type="virtio-serial" controller="0" bus="0" port="1"/></channel><input type="tablet" bus="usb"><address type="usb" bus="0" port="1"/></input><input type="mouse" bus="ps2"/><input type="keyboard" bus="ps2"/><graphics type="vnc" port="-1" autoport="yes"><listen type="address"/></graphics><audio id="1" type="none"/><video><model type="virtio" heads="1" primary="yes"/><address type="pci" domain="0x0000" bus="0x00" slot="0x01" function="0x0"/></video><watchdog model="itco" action="reset"/><memballoon model="virtio"><address type="pci" domain="0x0000" bus="0x05" slot="0x00" function="0x0"/></memballoon><rng model="virtio"><backend model="random">/dev/urandom</backend><address type="pci" domain="0x0000" bus="0x06" slot="0x00" function="0x0"/></rng></devices></domain>
On Slackware -current need tips on packages and such On Slackware -current need tips on packages and suchu/MD90__•1 mo. agoOn Slackware -current need tips on packages and suchI finally joined the slackware world and made a LQ account! I'm currently on slackware current and would like to know how to setup my slackpkg+ and sbopkg for current slackbuilds since slackbuilds site is 15.0 highest. What are some ways to get more current slackbuilds like flatpak and other things? Thanks!
Patched guile-2.0 slackbuild? Patched guile-2.0 slackbuild?u/mfising•1 mo. agoPatched guile-2.0 slackbuild?I am on Slackware-Current and I am trying to install the Arduino IDE slackbuild and one of the dependencies is guile-2.0, but when I try to run th slackbuild for guile2.0 it fails with the errors listed below. supposedly there is a patch for guile 2, but I am having troubles applying it to the slackbuild.   Is there a slackbuild for guile 2.o that is already patched?   Guile 2.2 is already installed for another dependency, so is there a way to flag the slackbuild to skip looking for guile 2.0?make[3]: Entering directory '/tmp/SBo/guile-2.0.14/libguile'CC       libguile_2.0_la-alist.loCC       libguile_2.0_la-arbiters.loCC       libguile_2.0_la-array-handle.loCC       libguile_2.0_la-array-map.loarray-map.c: In function 'scm_ramapc':array-map.c:231:35: error: too many arguments to function 'cproc'; expected 0, have 2231 |       return (SCM_UNBNDP (data) ? cproc(vra0, lvra) : cproc(vra0, data, lvra));|                                   ^~~~~ ~~~~array-map.c:231:55: error: too many arguments to function 'cproc'; expected 0, have 3231 |       return (SCM_UNBNDP (data) ? cproc(vra0, lvra) : cproc(vra0, data, lvra));|                                                       ^~~~~ ~~~~array-map.c:301:43: error: too many arguments to function 'cproc'; expected 0, have 2301 |             if (0 == (SCM_UNBNDP (data) ? cproc(vra0, lvra) : cproc(vra0, data, lvra)))|                                           ^~~~~ ~~~~array-map.c:301:63: error: too many arguments to function 'cproc'; expected 0, have 3301 |             if (0 == (SCM_UNBNDP (data) ? cproc(vra0, lvra) : cproc(vra0, data, lvra)))|                                                               ^~~~~ ~~~~make[3]: *** [Makefile:2530: libguile_2.0_la-array-map.lo] Error 1make[3]: Leaving directory '/tmp/SBo/guile-2.0.14/libguile'make[2]: *** [Makefile:2186: all] Error 2make[2]: Leaving directory '/tmp/SBo/guile-2.0.14/libguile'make[1]: *** [Makefile:1841: all-recursive] Error 1make[1]: Leaving directory '/tmp/SBo/guile-2.0.14'make: *** [Makefile:1727: all] Error 2
Avoiding self compiling questions Avoiding self compiling questionsu/MD90__•2 mo. agoAvoiding self compiling questionsAs someone with limited time and not high end hardware (ryzen 7 5800G and 16gb ram) compared to others I've seen, are there a lot of pre compiled binaries in any slackware repos and slackbuild repos? Things I'm hoping to avoid compiling is things like LLVM, Clang, Rust, and web browsers (Chromium being one). For programming projects I plan on using Rust, C, C++, Zig, and Go so avoiding self compiling large compilers would also be a plus. With all that being said I'm gonna try flatpaks for some stuff like browsers and such but which repos have more pre compiled binaries? I saw a post from alienbob on his blog about Chromium being 12 hours per package in a qemu virtual machine which sounds crazy. Sadly with my work schedule, and more power outage issues where I live (rural lots of trees and high winds), avoiding massive compiling is a plus. I'm sure you all know the best resources for this being great long time users of slackware! Any advice is welcomed and thank you!
AlienBobs “ktown” is back! AlienBobs “ktown” is back!u/jloc0•2 mo. agoAlienBobs “ktown” is back!https://blog.slackware.nl/kde-plasma-6_25-12-for-slackware-current/
sbozyp is stable! sbozyp is stable!u/nicholas_hubbard•2 mo. agosbozyp is stable!I am very pleased to announce that thesbozyppackage manager forSlackBuilds.orghas finally (after 3 years) had its first stable release!This insinuates two important things:I am happy with the overall quality and behavior of the programI do not foresee a future need to break backwards compatibility, and will increment the major version if the need arisesWith sbozyp being stable, I have uploaded it toSlackBuilds.org, meaning it can now manage itself.EDIT:cross-posted to LinuxQuestions.org
gnome-do / synapse alternatives for Slackware 15/current ? gnome-do / synapse alternatives for Slackware 15/current ?u/synthnassizer•2 mo. agognome-do / synapse alternatives for Slackware 15/current ?Hi allmHi all,I am looking for alternatives to gnome-do/synapse application launchers.I use XFCE4  which comes with its own whisker menu which is also a fine application launcher, but it seems to lack some specific functionality that I enjoyed in the other 2 apps:I was able to open folders directly (in thunar) by typing the first few letters of the folder name. In gnome-do you could configure the folders that the app was aware of. Synapse was a bit worse in that you could not explicitly configure the folder nodes that you wanted synapse to pull up when you started typing, but it was still very useful.Gnome-do does not exist anymore and Synapse is a mess to try and compile in Slackware (its dependency have compilation issues in vala which I want to avoid solving).No websites make a detailed analysis on this specific functionality so I wanted to crowdsource this information from you!Thank you in advance for your help!
Happy New Year to all of you. Happy New Year to all of you.u/linux_mintusers•2 mo. agoHappy New Year to all of you.
Why do people use Slackware? Why do people use Slackware?u/oColored_13•2 mo. agoWhy do people use Slackware?
Salix on old chromebook Salix on old chromebooku/Rukuss1•2 mo. agoSalix on old chromebook
What's the process for updating your kernel and kernel image using elilo and using grub? What's the process for updating your kernel and kernel image using elilo and using grub?u/MD90__•2 mo. agoWhat's the process for updating your kernel and kernel image using elilo and using grub?I'm curious about this process because I read slackware docs and it kinda made sense for elilo but not fully. Plus, I'm not sure how grub is handled in slackware. I'm guessing you always start with that mkintrid script which I'm still learning how to use then you would copy some files after to boot then update elilo or grub. That's just my guess on how things work since it is more manually done on slackware vs other distros having build hooks to handle it for you. Am I correct on how this process works? Is there any tips to make it easy? I just don't want to end up with a black screen upon reboot like last time. I want to really use slackware this time long term and really learn the workings of my hardware and really enjoy a bsd style system.
River window manager and (probably) graphics driver issues River window manager and (probably) graphics driver issuesu/ilikefrogs101_dev•2 mo. agoRiver window manager and (probably) graphics driver issuesHello, I just installed slackware for the first time and was hoping to set up the river window manager. I went through and installed every dependency it said I was missing however while now it doesn't say it's missing any dependencies it tells me that it "failed to create EGL context" and does not start, I have spent some time trying to resolve this issue by myself but I've found nothing apart from the suspicion it may have something to do with my graphics drivers (The computer I am attempting to run this on is a laptop with AMD graphics) but I have no idea how to solve whatever problem is occurring with the drivers if that even is the cause. Any help would be extremely appreciated, thanks
Cant get past boot console Cant get past boot consoleu/Greedytrade6969•2 mo. agoCant get past boot console
ERROR:  No kernel found at /boot/vmlinuz ERROR:  No kernel found at /boot/vmlinuzu/Aurochbull•2 mo. agoERROR:  No kernel found at /boot/vmlinuzI'm still in the machine, but I KNOW if I reboot I'm dead (probably).I made a new initrd, but when I try to reconfigure elilo, I get this error.Any help or advice is much appreciated!
Contributing to Slackware Contributing to Slackwareu/MD90__•2 mo. agoContributing to SlackwareIf you want to contribute to slackware like packages, package fixes, testing, maintaining tools by writing code for them, maybe one day make the slackware developer team... How do you get started and how can you get into the developer team one day?
Slackware install keeps failing at this point Slackware install keeps failing at this pointu/NekoKittu•2 mo. agoSlackware install keeps failing at this point
Qemu build failed ....wondering ummm 🤔 Qemu build failed ....wondering ummm 🤔u/unixbhaskar•2 mo. agoQemu build failed ....wondering ummm 🤔
Current or 15.0 given hardware and new to slackware Current or 15.0 given hardware and new to slackwareu/MD90__•2 mo. agoCurrent or 15.0 given hardware and new to slackwareGreetings Fellow Slackware Folks,I was wondering as someone who is running slackware next year bare metal with 16 GB RAM and a AMD Ryzen 7 5700 G with integrated Radeon Graphics on a HP Desktop, which version would be best suited for that build? Is current going to have less issues or will 15.0 because the hardware is now slightly older (2020)? Thanks!
slackware-current, Intel video driver, GLX not working slackware-current, Intel video driver, GLX not workingu/hymie0•2 mo. agoslackware-current, Intel video driver, GLX not workingOops, I meant to say "Intel video card" .  I am **NOT** using the old intel video driver.Greetings.I'm about 95% sure that Mesa / GL was running on my Slackware 15 installation.  But I recently updated to slackware-current (about a month ago), and now I get errors from everything GLX:laptop-pts/1:~% glxgears Error: couldn't get an RGB, Double-buffered visual laptop-pts/1:~% glxinfo name of display: :0 Error: couldn't find RGB GLX visual or fbconfigI'm assuming that I missed a package somewhere, but if so, I can't figure out which one.I have some (I think) relevant lines from Xorg.0.log ...[  1080.968] (II) LoadModule: "glx" [  1080.968] (II) Loading /usr/lib64/xorg/modules/extensions/libglx.so [  1080.968] (II) Module glx: vendor="X.Org Foundation" [  1080.968]    compiled for 1.21.1.20, module version = 1.0.0 [  1080.968]    ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 10.0 [  1080.968] (==) Matched modesetting as autoconfigured driver 0 [  1080.968] (==) Matched fbdev as autoconfigured driver 1 [  1080.968] (==) Matched vesa as autoconfigured driver 2 [  1080.968] (==) Assigned the driver to the xf86ConfigLayout [  1080.968] (II) LoadModule: "modesetting" [  1080.968] (II) Loading /usr/lib64/xorg/modules/drivers/modesetting_drv.so [  1080.968] (II) Module modesetting: vendor="X.Org Foundation" [  1080.968]    compiled for 1.21.1.20, module version = 1.21.1 [  1080.968]    Module class: X.Org Video Driver [  1080.968]    ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 25.2 [  1080.968] (II) LoadModule: "fbdev" [  1080.968] (WW) Warning, couldn't open module fbdev [  1080.968] (EE) Failed to load module "fbdev" (module does not exist, 0) [  1080.968] (II) LoadModule: "vesa" [  1080.968] (II) Loading /usr/lib64/xorg/modules/drivers/vesa_drv.so [  1080.968] (II) Module vesa: vendor="X.Org Foundation" [  1080.968]    compiled for 1.21.1.4, module version = 2.6.0 [  1080.968]    Module class: X.Org Video Driver [  1080.968]    ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 25.2 [  1080.968] (II) modesetting: Driver for Modesetting Kernel Drivers: kms [  1080.968] (II) VESA: driver for VESA chipsets: vesa [  1080.968] xf86EnableIO: failed to enable I/O ports 0000-03ff (Operation not permitted) [  1080.968] (II) modeset(0): using drv /dev/dri/card0 [  1080.968] (WW) VGA arbiter: cannot open kernel arbiter, no multi-card support [  1080.968] (II) modeset(0): Creating default Display subsection in Screen section         "Default Screen Section" for depth/fbbpp 24/32 [  1080.968] (==) modeset(0): Depth 24, (==) framebuffer bpp 32 [  1080.968] (==) modeset(0): RGB weight 888 [  1080.968] (==) modeset(0): Default visual is TrueColor... and I have the packages I installed, includingmesa-25.2.6-x86_64-1 xorg-server-21.1.20-x86_64-1 xf86-video-vesa-2.6.0-x86_64-1I couldn't find anything with an obvious fbdev driver.  Is that what I'm missing?If not ... can somebody point me the way?
startplasma-wayland problem startplasma-wayland problemu/iu1j4•2 mo. agostartplasma-wayland problemHello, I would like to test wayland and run plasma on wayland. I run slackware64-current. I created new user account for tests and run: dbus-run-session startplasma-wayland from console. rc.elogind and rc.messagebus are started. I saw plasma desktop with icons and taskbar. Then I right clicked on hp printer icon to open its menu and then from the menu I clicked "Settings". Then the menu sswitched to transparent mode and all freezed. I can not move pointer, cannot go back to text console with alt+ctrl Fn keys. The only action that works is power button that shutdowns system ( I use acpid to control power / lid actions). After new boot and new plasma-wayland the situation is the same. My gpu is intel from old i7. Can you advice me gowto properly run plasma wayland from commandline without sddm? Does it work for you? Edit: I run tests again but not touched printer icon on taskbar. I clicked folder icon on taskbar and it clicked and freezed. Edit: I run vanilla kernel 6.14.11 and the results are the same. I can run plasma manu, navigate there and chose apps (konsole). But when I run any app inside plasma then it freezes Edit: my cpu is i7 M640 2.8 GHz
Why is KDE not remembering my wifi password all of a sudden? Why is KDE not remembering my wifi password all of a sudden?u/Ezmiller_2•2 mo. agoWhy is KDE not remembering my wifi password all of a sudden?I have a Thinkpad t430 that I dualboot Win10 and Slackware on. Every time that I reboot to Slackware, I have retype my wifi password for Slackware to use. Am I missing something? Isn't this supposed to be automated?
How to upgrade from release to release? How to upgrade from release to release?u/linux_mintusers•3 mo. agoHow to upgrade from release to release?
Why not include Slackpkg+ in the installer as an option? Why not include Slackpkg+ in the installer as an option?u/Headpuncher•3 mo. agoWhy not include Slackpkg+ in the installer as an option?Because it's all 3rd party software and not part of the Slackware core packages? With packages likemultiliband even theopenJDKfor Java in there, plus a whole lot more (sic), it seems like it's going to be requested by enough users for it to be an option at install time?Or would this be what we used to call bloat? Or is Slackware really only for people who are willing to set it up themselves?I'm not being argumentative here. I'm just asking!
Upgrade path with multilib (Slackware 15.0) Upgrade path with multilib (Slackware 15.0)u/Richy_T•3 mo. agoUpgrade path with multilib (Slackware 15.0)So I have a Slackware box with multilib installed to run Steam and it has been working well.I have software that I run occasionally that requires a version of python later than the 3.9 which comes with the aging 15.0. I grabbed a bunch of packages from slackware-current (including aaa-glibc-solibs-2.42) and installed with installpkg. While this is apparently not the correct path given how slackpkg later complained to me, I was up to Python 3.12, the software I needed to run ran.However, I later found that steam would not start. Well, my assumption was I was now using non-multilib libs so I followed the multilib instructions for slackware-current. This got the first part of the steam running but the steamwebhelper repeatedly failed to start, the logs showing unable to find GLIBC_2.36 or GLIBC_2.38 required by libexpat.At this point, I was under a bit of time pressure so uninstalled all the libs from -current and reran the 15.0 multilib install to get steam back working again which it now is.So I will probably end up being able to move this forward by continuing to bang my head on the wall but am looking for suggestions on the best way to go. Should I just containerize the python I need or something?
Shrinking Slackware 15 for AMD64 installation with ZFS Shrinking Slackware 15 for AMD64 installation with ZFSu/asarch•3 mo. agoShrinking Slackware 15 for AMD64 installation with ZFSIf I would use the ZFS filesystem with the highest compression algorithm in a full installation, how much space could I save (specially when you build SlackBuilds)?
Multilib for Slackware 15 RTM? Multilib for Slackware 15 RTM?u/gargamel1497•3 mo. agoMultilib for Slackware 15 RTM?Good evening.How do I get multilib working on Slackware 15 RTM, that is, the build that you get by installing the baseline ISO and not updating it any further.I prefer using RTM builds because then I get a more authentic experience from the time the version/distro was released in, and because it's less dependant on the internet.And I would like to add multilib to my system specifically to be able to run MCPELauncher, but the issue is that Alien's multilib seems to be built against the latest version, and not the RTM release.Is there any archive of multilib packages? I mean, using the script you can just convert the packages straight from the iso, but you also need Alien's glibc binaries, and they are built against the latest update.And installing the 32-bit version would be kinda wasting disk space. I like the 32-bit architecture, but because it cannot allocate more than 1.5gb of ram (even with PAE) it's not suitable for virtual machines or modded Minecraft (Java Edition).And I already have a 32-bit installation of 14.2 on another hard drive, and while it can run MCPELauncher, there is something wrong with it and thus no worlds are saved.Thanks, sorry if it's a stupid question.
I have Slackware 15 installed now and everything works, but I want to install current from an iso.  Can I just write over what I have installed?  Do I need to repartition etc? I have Slackware 15 installed now and everything works, but I want to install current from an iso.  Can I just write over what I have installed?  Do I need to repartition etc?u/apooroldinvestor•3 mo. agoI have Slackware 15 installed now and everything works, but I want to install current from an iso.  Can I just write over what I have installed?  Do I need to repartition etc?I've got all my partitions already and my /home directory is on its own partition. I have currently//homeand then /boot/efi and I have another separate sdd that's mounted under /mnt/hdCan I just install Slackware current right over the / partition and /boot/efi?
How to recover from my first Slackware64 15 upgrade? How to recover from my first Slackware64 15 upgrade?u/globetrotterdk•4 mo. agoHow to recover from my first Slackware64 15 upgrade?I have a system that has been upgraded and is running with the latest kernel for stable, however I made a newbie mistake. I ran /usr/share/mkinitrd/mkinitrd_command_generator.sh -k  5.15.193 in init 3 as I did with the upgrade. I didn't realize that I had to run the script in a GUI, to get a command to run...
Tips on running Slackware as a daily driver Tips on running Slackware as a daily driveru/MD90__•4 mo. agoTips on running Slackware as a daily driverI'm debating on next year running slackware as a daily driver after running Arch now for quite some time. I know Slackware is pretty stable and I'm hoping to learn a ton moving away from systemd for a bit. I have heard that you need to get used to SysV init, LILO (or Grub if you set it up), building slackpkgs, handling kernel updates and firmware updates then making sure you get the updated initirafs system up to date with the kernel changes and firmware, and handling dependencies yourself. This makes me want to ask ...how do you all handle the issues and things mentioned above and run Slackware daily to not want to move away from it due to headaches from things mentioned up above?What resources and such do you use when problems arise? (my guess is this sub reddit would be a good one outside old linux forums)Those things mentioned above and the questions are what's holding me back from Slackware daily as in the past I borked the system from goofing up kernel updates and trying to self compile cinnamon and failing (im getting used to kde plasma now though). I'm hoping to one day become a slacker and maybe contribute given my background in software development and low level programming. Thanks in advance for taking the time to read my post and provide feedback (if you choose to)!In BOB we trust!
QEMU/KVM: No  "Virtualization: " in lscpu, but I have "VMX Unsupported" QEMU/KVM: No  "Virtualization: " in lscpu, but I have "VMX Unsupported"u/Dapper-Firefighter86•4 mo. agoQEMU/KVM: No  "Virtualization: " in lscpu, but I have "VMX Unsupported"I understand I may be able to install it  as a "type 2 hypervisor"I do have:  "Vulnerability Itlb multihit:     KVM: Mitigation: VMX unsupported"in the lscpuI did "slackpkg upgrade-all" I haven't changed the config . new scripts yet.
Wifi lost after upgrading firmware - iwlwifi fails with error -2, can't locate firmware Wifi lost after upgrading firmware - iwlwifi fails with error -2, can't locate firmwareu/apooroldinvestor•4 mo. agoWifi lost after upgrading firmware - iwlwifi fails with error -2, can't locate firmwareHowever, the firmware IS in the new firmware directory BUT its under a new subdirectory.  Would that be the reason it's not finding it?  I have the intel wifi 6 wifi.   If I switch back to the old firmware everything works fine though.  So I'm assuming its not finding it under the new location.  I though it didn't matter what subdirectory thins were under under the /lib/firmware directory?
How do I have permissions for /mnt/usb be retained? How do I have permissions for /mnt/usb be retained?u/apooroldinvestor•4 mo. agoHow do I have permissions for /mnt/usb be retained?Ive set up /etc/fstab with users and rw and I can read and write to usb drive as a normal user. Ive changed permissions on /mnt/usb recursively, but when I take out the drive and remount it, it doesnt retain the recursive permissions.So I can only write to top level /mnt/usb, but not directories under /mnt/usb.I can if I manually do chown name -Rv /mnt/usb each time I mount it though.The stick is formatted ext4, if that matters.
My lscpu says no microcode? My lscpu says no microcode?u/apooroldinvestor•4 mo. agoMy lscpu says no microcode?I did a lscpu and it says "reg file data sampling: Vulnerable: no microcode"  I am running Slackware 15, but I always use the latest 6.12 kernel from Current as for some reason I couldn't use kernel 5.xx with my hardware.
A meme rant on package managers. Slackware is for free people, while Debian is for the slaves of APT. A meme rant on package managers. Slackware is for free people, while Debian is for the slaves of APT.u/glowiak2•4 mo. agoA meme rant on package managers. Slackware is for free people, while Debian is for the slaves of APT.
Slackware release timing Slackware release timingu/sdns575•4 mo. agoSlackware release timingHi, I noticed that since 13.37 release date time increased up to 6 years between 14.2 and 15.0.Now, Slackware 15.0 was released in Feb 2022 and currently 3 and half years passed since latest release. Why so much tine between two release?Thank you in advance
Rsync 3.4.1 hangs Rsync 3.4.1 hangsu/PiccoloContribuente•4 mo. agoRsync 3.4.1 hangsSOLVED - looks like all rsync servers I tried were off...Hello, rsync hangs when I try to download Slack patches. I use the same script I have always used.command is:rsync  -avz --delete --progress --partial --exclude="*source*" rsync://elektroni.phys.tut.fi/slackware/slackware64-15.0/patches .I tried to change source, to not use -v.Any idea?ty
[Q] Collection of (all the) package managers? [Q] Collection of (all the) package managers?u/bsdooby•4 mo. ago[Q] Collection of (all the) package managers?What are your package managers of choice?Which one do you know of (e.g., slapt-get, slackpkg+, sbopkg, sbpk, ...)?
acpi_handler.sh acpi_handler.shu/iu1j4•4 mo. agoacpi_handler.shI use acpid and acpi_handler.sh for years and I had not to make any changes before. Today I noticed that when I close my laptop (lid close action) It begins to shutdown and then it goes to suspend. When I open the laptop  I see that the power led blinks in suspend mode. When I turn it on then it is on and finish to shutdown. I dont want the suspend mode (I dont have battery in the laptop) so I have the command shutdown - h now in my acpi_handler.sh Why the current slackware suspend even I setup it to shutdown?
Any AMD GPU users on here? Any AMD GPU users on here?u/Ezmiller_2•4 mo. agoAny AMD GPU users on here?I'm trying to install Fedora, but keep getting a black screen after I start the installer. So I'm thinking of trying Slackware next.Here's my specs. Supermicro X10DRH-IT. Dual Xeon E5-2690v4. AMD 580X 8gb. 64gb ram. SSD. 850 watt PSU. IBM/Intel RSB008 SAS card. That number might not be correct, I'm going off my memory.
how to get ROCm on slackware how to get ROCm on slackwareu/AcanthisittaCalm1939•5 mo. agohow to get ROCm on slackwareHello! I recently changed my GPU from Nvidia 1080 to Radeon RX 7600, because of this I switched from Slackware 15 to current, however, I have heard that in programs like Blender, AMD GPUs do not use CUDA, but HIP or OpenCL, which can be used in the system after installing or building ROCm. Since I have not found ROCm in Slackware 15/current repositories or in other repositories, my question is: has anyone tried to build ROCm on Slackware?
Returning to Slack - what's first? Returning to Slack - what's first?u/JasonPacker611•5 mo. agoReturning to Slack - what's first?Hey all. While I've been using Linux since about 1992, I fell away from using Slackware for a long time, moving to Debian for at least the last decade.But I have a nice little Thinkpad T420 that I decided to install Slackware 15 on, and then promptly upgraded to -current (slackpgk sure makes that easy!), but now I'm wondering - what should I focus on to realign my brain on the way that Slackware does things?
A good reason to love Slackware: dependency checking and non-authoritative packaging A good reason to love Slackware: dependency checking and non-authoritative packagingu/glowiak2•5 mo. agoA good reason to love Slackware: dependency checking and non-authoritative packagingRecently I've been playing around with PCLinuxOS (an RPM-based distro) and a bunch of Debian derivatives, with the goal of making DVDs with packages for offline use so that I can revisit those nostalgic (for me) distros long after their repos have shut down.And a thing I have been getting irritated about is as follows:As I install more and more packages, APT starts doing weird quirks with all the dependencies, only to lock out at a certain point in time, refusing to install anything until I run 'apt-get -f install'.Running this command on Ubuntu essentially removes the whole system (many years ago when I was a beginner I got this, and I clicked yes, and it really removed my system); on PCLinuxOS it says that it cannot do anything, therefore rendering APT unusable. Only the Devuan version of APT (baseline Debian without systemd, and with drivers installed by default) manages to (sort of) comprehend all of this, but it still requires me to run 'apt-get -f install' every few package installations, so that it can install some dependencies it forgot about during the actual installation process.And this is why I love Slackware: its package manager is as non-authoritative as possible, giving the user absolute control over his system.Because, in actuality, on most distros the package manager is the actual owner of your computer. If the package manager refuses to install a certain app for you, then you won't have it unless you compile it from source, therefore nuking the entire premise of a package manager.In Slackware it is you that are the owner of your computer. The package manager is a little helper instead of being your overlord.There is no dependency checking at all, which yes, on one side means that if you are installing binary packages and you forgot to install a dependency, the software will not run, but on the other hand it nulls the chances of such a dependency hell ever happening.I also love the /sbin/makepkg script which allows literally anyone to create a package out of anything without all that beaurocracy required in traditional package managers.Yes, the proper way to do this is to write a SlackBuild script, but nothing prevents you from just using the bare /sbin/makepkg - it's your computer after all.I haven't gotten into creating DEBs, but back in the day I would create RPM packages for some project (I don't remember what it was exactly; maybe it was "pa-applet") for my own use, and it was terrible. The need to create a strict package information file, the required libraries and all that ... just beaurocracy. BSD port systems are even worse in this regard - they even apply custom compiler options and environment variables without telling you about it, and in some case those do make the compilation fail, and of course, all this is poorly documented, and you have to blind-sightedly disable all of them and reenable them one by one to figure out what exactly is causing the compilation to fail.That's it. A rant on package managers.To be honest, I don't get the point of immutable distros (since they are an extension of the concept of a dependency-checking package manager). They just nuke the ability to tinker with your system.They say it's for security. Apple also glues the hard drives to the motherboard for security. Palantir also knows everything about you for security.I want the freedom to do absolutely anything I want with my system, since it's my system. Want to 'rm -fr --no-preserve-root /'? Cool, just think before doing it.I like tinkering with my system, replacing system libraries & such. Yes, often it leads to the system becoming unusable, but I nevertheless should have the ability to do it.If I had started with an immutable distro, I probably wouldn't have been the person who I am.Immutable distros are for corporate slaves, since the updates are downloaded straight from the company servers and flashed onto your device as if it were a phone.Though I admit that the way Haiku handles it is decent. They sort of do have a system-image thing, but you are allowed to modify it, therefore giving the best of both worlds. But I still prefer the traditonal approach.
apt on slackware? apt on slackware?u/Cool_catalog•6 mo. agoapt on slackware?how do i get apt so i can install Debian packages
Why is installing qemu such a pain in the arse??? Meh Why is installing qemu such a pain in the arse??? Mehu/unixbhaskar•6 mo. agoWhy is installing qemu such a pain in the arse??? MehTake a look :https://wiki.alienbase.nl/doku.php?id=slackware:qemuNow, is it worth???......BTW, slackbuild version of qemu build failed miserably and expecting a lot of stuff to have in the system....sigh....Wondering.....
dual-kerneling dual-kernelingu/edjak53•6 mo. agodual-kerneling
Is there slackware discord Server? Is there slackware discord Server?u/Professor-AC•7 mo. agoIs there slackware discord Server?If so, please drop the link.
When Slackware 15.1? When Slackware 15.1?u/markos4x•7 mo. agoWhen Slackware 15.1?Does anyone know when Slackware 15.1 will be released?
sorry in advance for secureboot question sorry in advance for secureboot questionu/pulneni-chushki•7 mo. agosorry in advance for secureboot questionI was thinking of trying to install slackware for the first time since it was my daily driver back in the 2000s, and so I downloaded the version 15.0 ISO, put it on a thumb drive, and booted it. Then I get a secureboot error message, and I can't boot it.So I looked up some shit on the internet, and it said I need the liveslak.der file, and I need to add it to the MOK thingy, so I did that.Now when I boot the ISO thumb drive, it still gives me the secureboot error message.What do I do? Is the install ISO no longer bootable?
Slackware Release Anniversary Slackware Release Anniversaryu/r1w1s1_•7 mo. agoSlackware Release AnniversaryOn this day in 1993, Patrick Volkerding released Slackware 1.0, the oldest Linux distro still maintained!Still simple, still solid, still Slackware.Read the original announcement:https://www.slackware.com/announce/1.0.php
GNUTLS update 10 July 2025 GNUTLS update 10 July 2025u/laz000•7 mo. agoGNUTLS update 10 July 2025Did anyone receive an email from root yesterday regarding a package update for gnutls? It appears legit, but getting it from root@localhost vs the Slackware Security List Address has me second guessing:Received: from connie.slackware.com (localhost [127.0.0.1])byconnie.slackware.com(8.14.3/8.14.3) with ESMTP id 56ANgEPi006672forslackware-security@slackware.com; Thu, 10 Jul 2025 16:42:14 -0700Received: from localhost (security@localhost)byconnie.slackware.com(8.14.3/8.14.3/Submit) with ESMTP id 56ANgECO006669forslackware-security@slackware.com; Thu, 10 Jul 2025 16:42:14 -0700Date: Thu, 10 Jul 2025 16:42:14 -0700 (PDT)From: Slackware Security Teamsecurity@slackware.comTo:slackware-security@slackware.comSubject: [slackware-security]  gnutls (SSA:2025-191-01)Message-ID:alpine.LNX.2.02.2507101641590.5490@connie.slackware.comUser-Agent: Alpine 2.02 (LNX 1266 2009-07-14)MIME-Version: 1.0Content-Type: MULTIPART/MIXED; BOUNDARY="960504934-1586331464-1752190934=:5490"This message is in MIME format.  The first part should be readable text,while the remaining parts are likely unreadable without MIME-aware tools.--960504934-1586331464-1752190934=:5490Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=ISO-8859-1Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8BIT-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----Hash: SHA1[slackware-security]  gnutls (SSA:2025-191-01)New gnutls packages are available for Slackware 15.0 and -current tofix security issues.Here are the details from the Slackware 15.0 ChangeLog:+--------------------------+patches/packages/gnutls-3.8.10-i586-1_slack15.0.txz:  Upgraded.This update fixes security issues:libgnutls: Fix NULL pointer dereference when 2nd Client Hello omits PSK.Reported by Stefan B??hlerlibgnutls: Fix heap read buffer overrun in parsing X.509 SCTS timestamps.Spotted by oss-fuzz and reported by OpenAI Security Research Team,and fix developed by Andrew Hamilton.libgnutls: Fix double-free upon error when exporting otherName in SAN.Reported by OpenAI Security Research Team.certtool: Fix 1-byte write buffer overrun when parsing template.Reported by David Aitel.For more information, see:https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2025-6395https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2025-32989https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2025-32988https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2025-32990(* Security fix *)+--------------------------+Where to find the new packages:+-----------------------------+Thanks to the friendly folks at the OSU Open Source Lab(http://osuosl.org) for donating FTP and rsync hostingto the Slackware project!  :-)Also see the "Get Slack" section onhttp://slackware.comforadditional mirror sites near you.Updated package for Slackware 15.0:ftp://ftp.slackware.com/pub/slackware/slackware-15.0/patches/packages/gnutls-3.8.10-i586-1_slack15.0.txzUpdated package for Slackware x86_64 15.0:ftp://ftp.slackware.com/pub/slackware/slackware64-15.0/patches/packages/gnutls-3.8.10-x86_64-1_slack15.0.txzUpdated package for Slackware -current:ftp://ftp.slackware.com/pub/slackware/slackware-current/slackware/n/gnutls-3.8.10-i686-1.txzUpdated package for Slackware x86_64 -current:ftp://ftp.slackware.com/pub/slackware/slackware64-current/slackware64/n/gnutls-3.8.10-x86_64-1.txzMD5 signatures:+-------------+Slackware 15.0 package:aa7e51e3b8f9b0274eaa5c8a8b494ec3  gnutls-3.8.10-i586-1_slack15.0.txzSlackware x86_64 15.0 package:1810a5c0c06e4486c2bab10d8e7434dd  gnutls-3.8.10-x86_64-1_slack15.0.txzSlackware -current package:9ce83422fbc028b4334cb63231ee13b0  n/gnutls-3.8.10-i686-1.txzSlackware x86_64 -current package:5905edccc85d9c89ce05084be96c3706  n/gnutls-3.8.10-x86_64-1.txzInstallation instructions:+------------------------+Upgrade the package as root:# upgradepkg gnutls-3.8.10-i586-1_slack15.0.txz+-----+Slackware Linux Security Teamhttp://slackware.com/gpg-keysecurity@slackware.com+------------------------------------------------------------------------+| To leave the slackware-security mailing list:                          |+------------------------------------------------------------------------+| Send an email tomajordomo@slackware.comwith this text in the body of || the email message:                                                     ||                                                                        ||   unsubscribe slackware-security                                       ||                                                                        || You will get a confirmation message back containing instructions to    || complete the process.  Please do not reply to this email address.      |+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----iF0EARECAB0WIQTsVknaQB4iq/pnNu9qRGPAQBAiMwUCaHBJlwAKCRBqRGPAQBAiM2CrAJ9Mjr9bDYlvTm6clEsxPDHzBqLzogCgiTz10j718fe8KR6wHe7jnDnJFAs==GxCi-----END PGP SIGNATURE-------960504934-1586331464-1752190934=:5490--
Can Slackware be used as main? Can Slackware be used as main?u/notnameuser-•7 mo. agoCan Slackware be used as main?I'm bored with other distributions, is slackware worth a try? Are there any driver problems etc? (I'm using an Nvidia GPU)
[Geany 2.1 Released] [Geany 2.1 Released]u/r1w1s1_•7 mo. ago[Geany 2.1 Released]Geany 2.1 was released today! I’ve already updated my SlackBuild and have it running on Slackware -current.If anyone’s interested, you can check out my updated build script here:https://git.sr.ht/~r1w1s1/slackbuilds/tree/main/item/modified/geanyAlways nice to see Geany getting updates. Happy hacking!
I made a DVD with a couple hundred prebuilt SBo packages for 14.2 x86 just to keep this beautiful release alive when the source links are long gone. I made a DVD with a couple hundred prebuilt SBo packages for 14.2 x86 just to keep this beautiful release alive when the source links are long gone.u/glowiak2•7 mo. agoI made a DVD with a couple hundred prebuilt SBo packages for 14.2 x86 just to keep this beautiful release alive when the source links are long gone.https://glowiak.codeberg.page/slackplus/
Slackwara propaganda Slackwara propaganda[deleted]•7 mo. agoSlackwara propaganda
Would you be interested in using my distro idea? Would you be interested in using my distro idea?[deleted]•8 mo. agoWould you be interested in using my distro idea?Hey Slackware folks, I'm thinking about making a custom distro based on Slackware -current, which would be named Slachy. Features would be:CachyOS kernelAn option to install GRUB from the installer instead of having to do it manuallyOut of the box slackpkg+ supportOut of the box SlackBuilds support (using Ponce's repo)Preinstalled multilibCustom branding (I'm thinking about making the logo a red S with the three CachyOS dots on the lower left, arranged like :. , just like that line in the Slackware logo)
What file manager do you use? What file manager do you use?u/Ezmiller_2•8 mo. agoWhat file manager do you use?Dolphin sucks. I miss using the KDE3 Konqueror, but the new version feels like it was mangled together for nostalgia, and not any real effort put into it.
Slackberry Pi Slackberry Piu/edjak53•8 mo. agoSlackberry Pi
Glad to be back. Feels like home. Glad to be back. Feels like home.u/amiralul•8 mo. agoGlad to be back. Feels like home.
Installing, updating GRUB on Slackware64-current if ELILO in place Installing, updating GRUB on Slackware64-current if ELILO in placeu/GENielsen•8 mo. agoInstalling, updating GRUB on Slackware64-current if ELILO in placeThe title says it all.  If you're presently booting Slackware64-current with ELILO then this is how to install, update GRUB.#  grub-install# grub-update# rebootThat's it.  I prefer GRUB to ELILO as ELILO is a bit unstable.  Have fun.
Slackware 3.5 CD found :0 Slackware 3.5 CD found :0u/LostWeb-17•8 mo. agoSlackware 3.5 CD found :0
As a Slacker do you have a life? As a Slacker do you have a life?u/GENielsen•8 mo. agoAs a Slacker do you have a life?
Tried installing Slackware in a virtual machine and this happened ): Tried installing Slackware in a virtual machine and this happened ):u/KamboRambo97•8 mo. agoTried installing Slackware in a virtual machine and this happened ):
cfdisk and fdisk -l do not match cfdisk and fdisk -l do not matchu/try4gain_•9 mo. agocfdisk and fdisk -l do not matchIt seems the cfdisk, cgdisk, and fdisk that come with slackware can not handle my eMMC drive well. eMMC is the type of HD many cheap CHEAP laptops use.  No matter what change I make using CFDISK or CGDISK setup says I have no linux partitions AND fdisk -l shows the exact same FreeBSD partitions that I had before I started this process (so no changes are being saved to the eMMC hard drive).Boot installerLogin as rootcfdisk /dev/mmcblkp02delete old freebsd partitionmake new linux partitionwrite changesDo the same on another partition to make swapwrite + quit + rebootRun setup.  "You do not have any linux partitions".fdisk -l shows FreeBSD partitioncfdisk shows Linux partitiondo all this 3 more times, same thing (rebooting each time, also tried all of this with cgdisk, same results)cfdisk /dev/mmcblkp02delete partition leaving only free spacewrite changesrebootfdisk -l shows FreeBSD partitioncfdisk shows Free spaceWhat CFDISK thinks is happening and FDISK thinks is not the same thing at all.Just tried to make (1) delete partition with fdisk (2) make new.  Both fail.Re-reeading the partition table failed.: Invalid argument
Sweet Slackware Sweet Slackwareu/southernlegends•9 mo. agoSweet Slackware
is store.slackware.com forever shutdown? :’( is store.slackware.com forever shutdown? :’(u/fbaldassarri•9 mo. agois store.slackware.com forever shutdown? :’(
Slackware64-current Slackware64-currentu/GENielsen•9 mo. agoSlackware64-current
Access Denied (403) on Alien's compat32 subdirectories? Access Denied (403) on Alien's compat32 subdirectories?u/Electrical_Monk6845•9 mo. agoAccess Denied (403) on Alien's compat32 subdirectories?So, I just flattened and reinstalled Slackware tonight, (for uh.. reasons) and going through my usual steps of installing multilib, I ran:cd: received redirection to \`http://www.slackware.com/\~alien/multilib/'   cd: Access failed: 403 Forbidden (\~alien/multilib)                  mirror: Access failed: 403 Forbidden (/15.0)   deepthunking@lt0:/opt/stor0/Slackware/Compat32$Anyone else running into this? is there a new process for making slackware64 multilib? HAS ALIENBOB ABANDONED US?Seriously, I'm sure it's a mistake on my part, but I've never run into this before.
How come other forums never mention Slackware?  There's even a post somewhere on the web asking "Does anyone really use Slackware anymore? .. How come other forums never mention Slackware?  There's even a post somewhere on the web asking "Does anyone really use Slackware anymore? ..u/apooroldinvestor•9 mo. agoHow come other forums never mention Slackware?  There's even a post somewhere on the web asking "Does anyone really use Slackware anymore? ..It's pretty much the only distro I've used happily for almost 15 years now and yet all the linux forums say dumb things like there's only 3 types of distros.  Debian, Ubuntu and redhat based.  And then they look at you like you're an alien if you mention Slackware.....
How do I add a new Desktop Environment How do I add a new Desktop Environment[deleted]•9 mo. agoHow do I add a new Desktop EnvironmentI currently use KDE on my Slackware Linux setup. I would love to use Mate Environment if possible.
NetHack 3.7.0 (development branch) and Dwarf Fortress 15.11 SlackBuilds NetHack 3.7.0 (development branch) and Dwarf Fortress 15.11 SlackBuildsu/zapwai•9 mo. agoNetHack 3.7.0 (development branch) and Dwarf Fortress 15.11 SlackBuildsHello Slackers,These two packages don't quite belong onslackbuilds.org, so I figured I would advertise that I have them.There is an update toDwarf Fortress Classic(which won't run in Slackware stable, but does run in -current)  that involved some changes in the build script. (This is a major update to the regular dwarffortress install from SBo, so do not install this unless you are going to remove 47.05 and install 51.11. You could just copy your ~/.dwarffortress folder if you really want to keep 47.05.)The NetHack dev team also hosts the unreleased version of NetHack onGitHub. I thought I would make it easy for Slackware users to install. (My 0.001 version number is arbitrary, the source is just one snapshot of the code base on GitHub - I'll update it periodically. My script builds for tty; Although the three Makefiles can easily be altered to build for x11 or curses without issue, so I might tweak the script to provide those options at some point.)NetHack 3.7.0 will install alongside your normal install of NetHack 3.6.7, in the usual Slackware locations.These SlackBuilds are hosted on myGitHuband mywebsite.
I wrote a stupid Slackbuild backup script. I wrote a stupid Slackbuild backup script.u/Electrical_Monk6845•9 mo. agoI wrote a stupid Slackbuild backup script.First of all, apologies if this is the wrong forum for this post. I've been lurking around the internet since, well since the internet was little more than a dial-up connection to a local BBS. I've also been using Slackware since 1999(??), but I've mostly stayed in my little corner and banged away at whatever I was trying to accomplish. A few days ago, I got frustrated at how often I have to re-build something I grabbed from slackbuilds because I forget to copy the whatever.tgz to someplace I can save it, so I wrote this:https://github.com/madennis385/Backup-SlackbuildsAt it's core, it monitors /tmp for newly created slackware installers, waits until they haven't changed in size for 2 minutes, and then copies them somewhere else (for me, an NFS share that doesn't get formatted when I reinstall my OS) I figured there might be more bumbling old fools out there like me who could use (or modify, then use) something like this, so I'm putting it out there.
... Incoming Slack Transmission ... ... Incoming Slack Transmission ...u/zapwai•9 mo. ago... Incoming Slack Transmission ...
Slackware-current Upgrade (6.12.27) Keyboard/Mouse Issue Slackware-current Upgrade (6.12.27) Keyboard/Mouse Issueu/poohthepirate•9 mo. agoSlackware-current Upgrade (6.12.27) Keyboard/Mouse IssueI updated Slackware Current this morning (6.12.27), and several of my peripherals (primarily the USB keyboard and USB mouse) no longer work. The keyboard works fine through POST and the bootloader (Grub2), but it breaks during OS loading.Is anyone else running into a similar issue?
Assign Specific MAC Address to br0 via rc.inet1.conf Assign Specific MAC Address to br0 via rc.inet1.confu/x_johansen_x•10 mo. agoAssign Specific MAC Address to br0 via rc.inet1.confHi everyone,I followed the following Slackware documentation:https://docs.slackware.com/howtos:network_services:ethernet_bridging_with_openvpn, to create a br0 and tap0 device at boot time without any issues. That said, I would like to specify a MAC address to br0 so that I can in turn assign it a static ip via my router. I added an option following option in rc.inet1.conf, namely: ´ADDRESS[0]=«MAC address wanted»´, but it doesn’t work. My assumption was that the option should be based on the following command: ip link add br0 address ‘MAC address wanted’ type bridge.Any pointers? Thanks!
Future of OSL in Jeopardy -- continuity of osuosl.org Future of OSL in Jeopardy -- continuity of osuosl.orgu/livestradamus•10 mo. agoFuture of OSL in Jeopardy -- continuity of osuosl.orgOpen Source Lab Fund (osu) a primary repo for slackware needs funding support.https://osuosl.org/blog/osl-future/Shared by ttk on LQ:https://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/slackware-14/future-of-osl-in-jeopardy-continuity-of-osuosl-org-4175750194/
Apparently I have a very specific issue. Apparently I have a very specific issue.u/Tiny_Concert_7655•10 mo. agoApparently I have a very specific issue.The slackware setup program on the live iso doesn't prompt me about installing lilo or elilo. When I try to install grub through chroot, x86_64-efi/modinfo.sh doesn't exist, there's only the i386-pc and i386-efi ones.So I try to install it with --target=i386-efi and then grub says that efi isn't supported on my system (which is false)My efi partition is formatted as vfat and mounted to /boot/efi.Efi and grub and everything worked fine on arch and every other distro so I'm kinda at a loss, someone just tell me what I'm missing.
Question: KOrganizer Syncs Google Calendars in VM but not on Bare Metal Question: KOrganizer Syncs Google Calendars in VM but not on Bare Metal[deleted]•10 mo. agoQuestion: KOrganizer Syncs Google Calendars in VM but not on Bare MetalHello,I wrote the following in the KDE subreddit, but I haven't gotten any leads, so I am wondering if this is the place to post: I am running Slackware 15 with KDE 5.23. While I can set up KOrganizer to sync my Google calendar when I run Slackware in a VM (Boxes on Fedora 42), I cannot do so when I run the OS on bare metal. Could anyone please provide some pointers to fix this?I installed everything except for the e/ package set. I upgraded all packages. Here are my system details:Operating System: Slackware 15.0KDE Plasma Version: 5.23.5KDE Frameworks Version: 5.90.0Qt Version: 5.15.3Kernel Version: 5.15.161 (64-bit)Graphics Platform: X11Processors: 4 × Intel® Core™ i5-4300U CPU @ 1.90GHzMemory: 3.7 GiB of RAMGraphics Processor: Mesa DRI Intel® HD Graphics 4400
Slackware AArch64 - Apple Silicon/macOS/Parallels paravirtualization Slackware AArch64 - Apple Silicon/macOS/Parallels paravirtualizationu/drMoZes•10 mo. agoSlackware AArch64 - Apple Silicon/macOS/Parallels paravirtualizationVlog S03E48: In this episode, we install Slackware AArch64 on Apple Silicon using "Parallels" on macOS. A full install takes ~10 minutes.https://youtu.be/zKyP6m5W6XgInstall guide:https://docs.slackware.com/slackwarearm:inst_sa64_virt_parallelsI think we've covered all the hypervisors now ;-) We'll look at documenting installation using QEMU on x86_64 soonish.
sbopkg with gnupg2 (gpg2) and not gnupg (gpg) sbopkg with gnupg2 (gpg2) and not gnupg (gpg)u/shiftag•10 mo. agosbopkg with gnupg2 (gpg2) and not gnupg (gpg)Hello,I've noticed that `sbopkg` is using gpg (the old version). On slackware-current it is version `gnupg-1.4.23` from2018!!!!!So is there way to tell `sbopkg` to use gpg2 instead ?
Loving Slack, but my OCD is killing me. Loving Slack, but my OCD is killing me.u/theclumsytech•10 mo. agoLoving Slack, but my OCD is killing me.I’ve been distro hopping for years. I just want a clean, simple, more traditional experience. I had a love-affair with BSD and Gentoo, I ran Arch for a good while, but at the end of the day I ended up with Slackware, as it’s the perfect balance between old and Unix-like, and actually useable. In short, Slackware stopped my distro hopping, and forced me to learn the right way to do things, and it just works, without issues. It’s rock solid. I’m used to building my system out from scratch with other distros, keeping it lean and minimal. Slackware feels like my room as a teenager, cluttered, but comfortable. I really like the comfort aspect of it. I feel like I could accomplish anything with it. But with that being said, what are you guys doing to build a leaner, more organized system? Is there a method to the madness? I don’t want to remove anything that serves as dependencies later, and there are some random packages that, quite frankly, have no idea what they even do. I hate opening the KDE menu and seeing all the KDE and XFCE apps together, and having all the different terminals, and all the different text editors that I never use. The menus just make me crazy. They are just ridiculous. I know there is no harm to this, but it drives me nuts. So what would be the Slackware correct way to deal with this? Or does my philosophy just defeat the entire purpose of using it? Should I just install the bare minimum, or use a third-party tool to fix it after install? What’s a good way to keep the system organized, and not just create a fragmented mess. Maybe sbotools and prune it after? Or use AlienBob’s livecd to start?
Slackware AArch64 - macOS paravirtualization - VMWare & UTM Slackware AArch64 - macOS paravirtualization - VMWare & UTMu/drMoZes•10 mo. agoSlackware AArch64 - macOS paravirtualization - VMWare & UTMInstall Slackware AArch64 on macOS (UTM + VMware Fusion) in under 10 mins using paravirtualization! Easy, fast, and great for exploration. Enjoy!https://youtu.be/TLGFmpJn1m8mozes@slackware
Slackware in the headline of an  article on German IT news Slackware in the headline of an  article on German IT newsu/_a4z•10 mo. agoSlackware in the headline of an  article on German IT newsHas been a while since I saw Slackware mentioned anywhere.So I thought I would forward this info to herehttps://www.heise.de/news/Slackware-schafft-mehr-Sicherheit-Wifislax-4-0-prueft-WLAN-Netze-mit-WPA3-10339163.html
AlienBOBs -current ISO seemingly doesnt have UEFI support? AlienBOBs -current ISO seemingly doesnt have UEFI support?[deleted]•1 yr. agoAlienBOBs -current ISO seemingly doesnt have UEFI support?This is very strange, because the regular Slackware ISOs do. I tested this on two different systems, and both gave me the same result, which was that the USB Stick I flashed the ISO onto wasnt recognized as an UEFI boot device. Legacy boot works perfectly though. EDIT: SOLVED BY USING VENTOY!
Kernel installation shell script - need your opinion. Kernel installation shell script - need your opinion.u/tupsie•1 yr. agoKernel installation shell script - need your opinion.The reason why I created this script was to learn by doing things.#!/bin/bash  set -e  read -rp "Enter the Linux kernel version you want to install (e.g. 6.12.1): " KVER  ROOT_PART="/dev/nvme0n1p3" EFI_DIR="/boot/efi/EFI/Slackware" ELILO_CONF="$EFI_DIR/elilo.conf" CPU_CORES=$(nproc) KERNEL_ARCHIVE="linux-$KVER.tar.xz" KERNEL_SRC_DIR="/usr/src/linux-$KVER"  cd /usr/src  # Download kernel if not already downloaded if [[ ! -f $KERNEL_ARCHIVE ]]; then     wget "https://cdn.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/v6.x/$KERNEL_ARCHIVE" fi  # Extract if not already extracted if [[ ! -d $KERNEL_SRC_DIR ]]; then     tar -xf "$KERNEL_ARCHIVE" fi  cd "$KERNEL_SRC_DIR"  # Use Slackware's generic config as a base cp /boot/config-generic-5.15.19.x64 .config  # Enable as many options as possible yes "" | make oldconfig make menuconfig # At this point you can optionally press:  #   -> Save as `.config`, exit  # Set a suffix to distinguish this build scripts/config --set-str CONFIG_LOCALVERSION "-full"  # Enable tons of device and FS support scripts/config --enable CONFIG_IWLWIFI scripts/config --enable CONFIG_IWLMVM scripts/config --enable CONFIG_DRM_I915 scripts/config --enable CONFIG_BLK_DEV_NVME scripts/config --enable CONFIG_SND_HDA_INTEL scripts/config --enable CONFIG_SND_USB_AUDIO scripts/config --enable CONFIG_USB_SERIAL scripts/config --enable CONFIG_USB_STORAGE scripts/config --enable CONFIG_USB_NET_DRIVERS scripts/config --enable CONFIG_RTL_CARDS scripts/config --enable CONFIG_NET_VENDOR_REALTEK scripts/config --enable CONFIG_NET_VENDOR_INTEL scripts/config --enable CONFIG_NET_VENDOR_BROADCOM scripts/config --enable CONFIG_BT scripts/config --enable CONFIG_BT_INTEL scripts/config --enable CONFIG_BT_BCM scripts/config --enable CONFIG_ACPI scripts/config --enable CONFIG_PM scripts/config --enable CONFIG_INTEL_IDLE scripts/config --enable CONFIG_WLAN scripts/config --enable CONFIG_WIRELESS scripts/config --enable CONFIG_IPV6 scripts/config --enable CONFIG_EFI scripts/config --enable CONFIG_FB_EFI scripts/config --enable CONFIG_EXT4_FS scripts/config --enable CONFIG_FAT_FS scripts/config --enable CONFIG_NTFS3_FS scripts/config --enable CONFIG_XFS_FS scripts/config --enable CONFIG_BTRFS_FS scripts/config --enable CONFIG_MSDOS_FS scripts/config --enable CONFIG_VFAT_FS scripts/config --enable CONFIG_TMPFS scripts/config --disable CONFIG_DEBUG_INFO  make olddefconfig  # Get final kernel version string KERNELRELEASE=$(make -s kernelrelease)  # Compile kernel make -j"$CPU_CORES" make modules_install  # Install manually cp arch/x86/boot/bzImage /boot/vmlinuz-$KERNELRELEASE cp System.map /boot/System.map-$KERNELRELEASE cp .config /boot/config-$KERNELRELEASE ln -sf System.map-$KERNELRELEASE /boot/System.map  # Initrd mkinitrd -c -k "$KERNELRELEASE" -f ext4 -r "$ROOT_PART" -u -o "/boot/initrd-$KERNELRELEASE.gz"  # Copy to EFI cp /boot/vmlinuz-$KERNELRELEASE "$EFI_DIR/vmlinuz-$KERNELRELEASE.efi" cp /boot/initrd-$KERNELRELEASE.gz "$EFI_DIR/initrd-$KERNELRELEASE.gz"  # Update ELILO config cp "$ELILO_CONF" "$ELILO_CONF.bak.$(date +%F-%H%M)" if ! grep -q "label=Linux-$KERNELRELEASE" "$ELILO_CONF"; then   cat <<EOF >> "$ELILO_CONF"  image=vmlinuz-$KERNELRELEASE.efi   label=Linux-$KERNELRELEASE   initrd=initrd-$KERNELRELEASE.gz   read-only   append="root=$ROOT_PART" EOF fi  ln -sfn "linux-$KVER" /usr/src/linux  echo "✅ Installed Linux $KERNELRELEASE with wide hardware support." echo "💡 Reboot and choose it from ELILO."How good is this script?I have tried installing kernel 6.12 with this script. But, wifi is not working. Probably I have to Digg into it more and may be put a post here.P.S:I am using elilo.Used ChatGPT to expand the script which I was using earlier.Edit:Added why I created this script.
Good News Everyone! Good News Everyone!u/Economy_Blueberry_25•1 yr. agoGood News Everyone!The Civil Infrastructure Platform (CIP) hasadopted kernel 6.12 as a SLTSextended security-support kernel, which means that the upcoming release of Slackware (stable) could be properly patched and upgraded all the way to December 2035.Here's waiting for Pat to release that Alpha, should be any day now! Cheers!
Hello everyone Hello everyoneu/Yahyaux•1 yr. agoHello everyoneI am a Linux user, I have been using it for 5 years, since 4 years I have been trying to get rid of Windows (installing and removing a distribution, trying this and that, using a virtual machine) now I have been using it for a year for everything and I joined Linux communities to learn and try something new but these communities have a lot of (fanatics, teenagers, people with a stone in their heads...), I am trying to find a good place for me, a mature place.Please help me
Some of the flatpaks are EOL for Slackware. How would I update those and still be compatible with Slackware 15? Some of the flatpaks are EOL for Slackware. How would I update those and still be compatible with Slackware 15?u/Ezmiller_2•1 yr. agoSome of the flatpaks are EOL for Slackware. How would I update those and still be compatible with Slackware 15?I did some searching andhttps://www.reddit.com/r/flatpak/comments/twj0ln/orgkdeplatform_is_endoflife_how_to_fix/This shows how to update them within Xubuntu. Would I just do the same in Slackware?
CPU usage HIGH if I exit command line by closing the terminal "graphically" CPU usage HIGH if I exit command line by closing the terminal "graphically"u/Aurochbull•1 yr. agoCPU usage HIGH if I exit command line by closing the terminal "graphically"Bottom line is that, if I leave a terminal session by "X-ing out", my CPU usage is very high while idling, and remains until I reboot.Example: I use sboui and click to review the readme, I seem stuck on the CLI with the output and no way to get back to the prompt to type exit, and have to just close the window. But then, my CPU is running over 50%.What am I doing wrong or is there a default key to drop to command prompt? I know this is low level shit but I'm a low level dude and appreciate any advice. Thanks!Edit: I'm on Slackware 15 and XFCE de.
Xenia Was This Ever A Real Thing? Xenia Was This Ever A Real Thing?u/UnspiredName•1 yr. agoXenia Was This Ever A Real Thing?So I am going to step on a landmine here. I've been using Linux since the late 1990s. I have never heard this story. Someone on a tangentially related-to-Linux discord server I am on posted this moments ago. I've never heard of this before. Is this ...made up? In that, it's apocryphal? Or was this really a thing? Admittedly I don't travel in circles I might have been exposed to this story/information but I feel like I would have heard of this at some point over the last ...I know? Two or three decades?https://xenia-linux-site.glitch.me/Why am I asking this question here? Well, because I actually don't know anywhere else to find old people like me who have been around Linux for 20+ years thanr/Slackwarelol.Please, no social/political commentary. I'm just purely curious to know the answer
Old Time Slackware Users Old Time Slackware Usersu/GENielsen•1 yr. agoOld Time Slackware UsersI realize that the title of this post is a bit ambiguous.  It can be taken a few ways.  I'm an older Slacker(67) who has happily used Slackware since 2004, version 10.0.  Back then 10.0 still shipped with Gnome.  Today I'm running Slackware64-current on a Dell Optiplex 990, a Dell Optiplex 9020, and a T14 Thinkpad.  I'm a Slackware enthusiast.  I started using Linux in 2002.
:) New kernel package too ...dirty but enjoyable! :) New kernel package too ...dirty but enjoyable!u/unixbhaskar•1 yr. ago:) New kernel package too ...dirty but enjoyable!
The miscreant continues ......😜 The miscreant continues ......😜u/unixbhaskar•1 yr. agoThe miscreant continues ......😜
Can I run just one program with GLIBC_2.34 under Slackware 15.0? Can I run just one program with GLIBC_2.34 under Slackware 15.0?u/Jesse9857•1 yr. agoCan I run just one program with GLIBC_2.34 under Slackware 15.0?I need to run single application which disgustingly requires GLIBC 2.34.I'm running Slackware 15.0, which of course has GLIBC 2.33.I also have done the multilib 32 bit upgrade so I can run 32 bit junkware like google earth.I'd rather not do a full operating system re-install just for this one program.Is there a way to put all the GLIBC 2.34 related files from slackware-current into their own folder and chroot into that to run my specific application?Or is there any better approach to running this one program that needs GLIBC 2.34 without switching to slackware-current ?  It needs sound, video, and network to work.Thank you!PS/UPDATE:You can still download the previous Discord version and edit the config file so it doesn't check for major updates:https://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/slackware-14/workaround-discord-0-0-87-on-slackware-15-0-installation-corrupt-4175748322/This worked for me.
Bought my wife a new all in one Bought my wife a new all in oneu/jcdeb•1 yr. agoBought my wife a new all in oneBought her a new Lenovo and it came with Windows 11. WTF was Microsoft thinking? Very unusual interface and it's not intuitive. Adds are annoying, will have to look up about that. She likes all in one desktops for some reason, my guess is that she is afraid I will build her one with Slackware. I keep telling her she has no idea at what she is missing. Printing blows on Windows, I've never had an issue on Slackware and my printer is the last of the well built printers (1995). It even sees my wife's more modern HP printer. Supplies are getting harder to get for mine so I'll probably be getting a new one this year.
Using flatpaks on Slackware feels like I'm cheating. Using flatpaks on Slackware feels like I'm cheating.u/Ezmiller_2•1 yr. agoUsing flatpaks on Slackware feels like I'm cheating.I feel like they take away the uniqueness of Slackware. But it's so...smooth and easy to do. Thanks Eric for getting flatpak working.
Slackware Discord server Slackware Discord serveru/litelinux•1 yr. agoSlackware Discord serverI'm surprised that it's not mentioned here before, but Slackware has an (obviously unofficial) Discord server:https://discord.gg/CZ2Jk3qDQPThe Gnome for Slack and KDE6 guys are there, as well as the Slint maintainer and other Slackware power users. If you feel like LQ is too toxic and here too low-traffic, consider joining.
Worth it switching to Slackware as an Arch addict? Worth it switching to Slackware as an Arch addict?u/stas-prze•1 yr. agoWorth it switching to Slackware as an Arch addict?So I'm a blind Linux user. I've been using various forms of Linux on and off ever since I was about 13 - 14 semi regularly. There was moments where I used it for a daily driver more but ever since about 3 years ago I just can't bring my self to do it.Basically every time I reinstall Arch, something seems to be a bit meh especially in terms of accessibility. Either web browsing is slow, setting up libvirt for Windows is a pain, ETC. I'm thinking I might actually be more fine with it if I switch to a slightly lower maintenance distro.Here's where Slint comes in. It's a Slackware based distro for blind / VI fokes. It has many scripts to aid in it's usability, supports my favorite TTS engine via Voxin, has preconfigured Emacspeak so I could finally learn Emacs and do irc / some other stuff that way, but most importantly I wouldn't have to wonder if my system is going to break after not updating it for 7 days.Essentially I want something that is as preconfigured and as low-maintenance as possible, and Slint seems to be the perfect fit for me. I'm just not sure if the Slackware ekosystem is going to be friendly to a Pacman lover like me.Any tips appreciated!
Sooooo what's with the -CURRENT and -STABLE installers? Sooooo what's with the -CURRENT and -STABLE installers?u/Crafty_Classic_7210•1 yr. agoSooooo what's with the -CURRENT and -STABLE installers?So I started using Slackware back in the 1990s. I used it all way up to the mid 2000s. I've always loved Slackware. I wanted to give it a try this morning and see what's what. Unfortunately I don't understand what's wrong with the installer with regard to EFI and LUKS.I got the ISO from Alien Bob where I've been getting them from for ...idk? 30 years?(Christ I'm old .....)So here's what I didsgdisk -Z /dev/nvme0n1gdisk /dev/nvme0n1created p1 (EFI formatted as vfat -f32 -n EFI)created p2 (/boot formatted as ext4)created p3 (root duh?)I did cryptsetup and formatted/opened p3 - formatted /dev/mapper/cryptroot as ext4I started setup went through the routine. and on detection of disks, it picked /dev/sda2 (my USB thumb drive) as the EFI partition. That seemed odd to me. So I backed out, tried again. Same deal. Still thinks /dev/sda2 is the EFI.So for some reason, I decided to yank the USB drive out and back out and try again. This time it worked, it sees p1 as EFI and works fine.I figured this was just a quirk with -CURRENT so I tried -STABLESame deal. EFI on /dev/sda is seen as the EFI part - not the physical drive I formattedAm I doing some order of operation wrong here? I chose EF00 for p1 and formatted with:mkfs.vfat -F32 -n EFI /dev/nvme0n1p1I do this in Arch, in Debian manual installs. Never fails. Except here.Also, is this installer ever going to be paralllized? Like, will it ever download more than one file at once? This whole going one file at a time thing was quaint in 1999 when I had AT&T dial-up and couldn't do that. But it's 20XX now and faster than DSL speeds are a thing.Thanks!
Graphical Boot in Slackware 15 Graphical Boot in Slackware 15u/Distinct_Adeptness7•1 yr. agoGraphical Boot in Slackware 15
Kernel Header Issue in Slackware 15 Kernel Header Issue in Slackware 15u/egothelarge•1 yr. agoKernel Header Issue in Slackware 15Hello! I have been running Slackware 15 for a while on my laptop and generally things are ok, but I am trying to build kio-fuse off Slackbuilds and it is failing to find some header files that should be in /usr/src/linuxAt some point I did an update and got a new kernel, had stability problems and went back to the stock slackware 15 5.15.19 kernel where everything works just fine (on a Framework 13).Anyway, when building kio-fuse I get the following error after passing all the tests[  7%] Building CXX object CMakeFiles/kio-fuse.dir/kio-fuse_autogen/mocs_compilation.cpp.o In file included from /usr/include/bits/fcntl.h:61,                 from /usr/include/fcntl.h:35,                 from /usr/include/fuse3/fuse_lowlevel.h:28,                 from /tmp/SBo/kio-fuse-5.0.1/build/kio-fuse_autogen/EWIEGA46WW/../../../kiofusenode.h:9,                 from /tmp/SBo/kio-fuse-5.0.1/build/kio-fuse_autogen/EWIEGA46WW/moc_kiofusenode.cpp:10,                 from /tmp/SBo/kio-fuse-5.0.1/build/kio-fuse_autogen/mocs_compilation.cpp:2: /usr/include/bits/fcntl-linux.h:354:11: fatal error: linux/falloc.h: No such file or directory  354 | # include <linux/falloc.h>      |that makes me think the cmake isn't setting up the include paths correctly, but I do have it linked in /usr/srcAny ideas of what I need to check? it seems like this isn't a specific slackbuild problem and more a system config one?/usr/src$ ls -l total 8 lrwxrwxrwx  1 root root   13 Feb  7 20:53 linux -> linux-5.15.19 drwxrwxr-x 25 root root 4096 Jan  1 21:42 linux-5.15.175 drwxr-xr-x 24 root root 4096 Feb  1  2022 linux-5.15.19
Using Slackware packages to install to .Local on SteamOS / other atomic distros. Using Slackware packages to install to .Local on SteamOS / other atomic distros.u/redsteakraw•1 yr. agoUsing Slackware packages to install to .Local on SteamOS / other atomic distros.Slackware in it's simplicity of packaging and mostly vanilla packaging makes it a great resource to use when trying to create build environments on atomic distros like Steam OS.  Right now I am using a steam deck but the problem I ran into is that the base OS is great but read only while I can set it to write if I update steamOS it will wipe any changes so the only persistent applications have to be installed locally.  That is where Slackware packages come in handy.in $HOME/.local/usr/  you can extract and run the install.sh for packages.  now you can run those packages easily  just make sure these lines are in your bashrcexport PATH="$HOME/.local/usr/bin:$PATH" export LD_LIBRARY_PATH="$HOME/.local/usr/lib64:$HOME/.local/usr/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH"There you can install your build tools and other apps / libraries you want to run and you are set.  What are your thoughts and what sort of applications would you run in this sort of environment? So far I am using it for development tools like GCC and other programing languages environments.
Anyone using beta/current testing have issues with their touchpad not working? Anyone using beta/current testing have issues with their touchpad not working?u/Ezmiller_2•1 yr. agoAnyone using beta/current testing have issues with their touchpad not working?I'm going to move back to Slackware here shortly on Sunday sometime. The touchpad on my T430 has quit working on both Fedora and MX but not Windows, so I think it's a Wayland issue? Issues like this keep coming up and there aren't any answers that I've found.I was hoping Slackware 15.1 would have the issue ironed out when released so I wouldn't have to worry about it.
Need help with slpkg Need help with slpkgu/OkNoble•1 yr. agoNeed help with slpkg
Old School Old Schoolu/000927kd•1 yr. agoOld School
Installing Slackware to USB HDD Installing Slackware to USB HDDu/evild4ve•1 yr. agoInstalling Slackware to USB HDDSOLVED(But it is a long and messy solution, possibly I did steps that were unnecessary or could have been completed more simply by reinstalling with correct options, kernel parameters, etc). For now I will edit and number my posts to make it easier if anyone in future gets linked here from a search engine.(POST 1)I'm trying to install Slackware 15.0 to a 64-bit 2000s palmtop, whose first HDD is soldered-in and unusable (but the legacy BIOS, and installed OSes still always detect it as the first HDD).This has caused me some problems with the default LILO installer, but my questions for this Reddit are more about how to work around that.I have Slackware in 3 places:-Ventoy Live-USB (the 15.0 installation .iso) < this works fine, but I don't want a Live-USB (even one with some persistent storage) I want to use the Live-USB to full install to a USB-HDD"The USB-HDD" (16GB) < this installed successfully, but I deselected LILO and the installer has put the kernel files + vmlinuz into a folder on the root partition called boot, rather than the actual boot partition (which I roughly know how to do manually, although the assortment of files looks a bit bewildering with both LILO and Grub stuff). Unsurprisingly it doesn't boot and gives a flashing cursor.Slackware Bootstick (2GB) < this was generated by the installer. I would have expected it to (i) make the USB-HDD boot without having configured LILO, (ii) to be a starting point for creating or sorting out a boot partition on the USB-HDD. But trying to boot from this one returns a warning "Wrong EFI loader signature" and an error "LZMA data is corrupt" and then "-- System halted"What I'll try next is to put the USB-HDD on another system, and go through the steps of mounting the root partition, copy all the kernel files somewhere else, then mount the boot partition, then bind sys proc dev, then chroot in, then copy the kernel files back, then install grub hoping this unfinished install created everything grub needs.I won't need the huge-smp or LILO files, so I can remove those in the process to reduce my confusion.But is there a walkthrough for that process specific to Slackware? And is there anywhere I can download the default Bootstick that the installer makes? Or is it somewhere on the Slackware 15.0 .iso?
Back to Slackware after long time <3 Back to Slackware after long time <3u/tupsie•1 yr. agoBack to Slackware after long time <3Slackware 10.2 was my first Linux distribution. One of my friends installed it on my desktop, replacing Windows XP, and I haven't used Windows since. Over the years, I explored other distros, but I returned to Slackware this year.
How do I install ghostty terminal in Slackware? How do I install ghostty terminal in Slackware?[deleted]•1 yr. agoHow do I install ghostty terminal in Slackware?Just the title.
What is this??? I thought slackware didnt have an "install gui". (this isnt my screenshot just found this on a wiki article for slackware (not wikipedia)) (please dont downvote randomly) What is this??? I thought slackware didnt have an "install gui". (this isnt my screenshot just found this on a wiki article for slackware (not wikipedia)) (please dont downvote randomly)u/wqeh2ui9ods•1 yr. agoWhat is this??? I thought slackware didnt have an "install gui". (this isnt my screenshot just found this on a wiki article for slackware (not wikipedia)) (please dont downvote randomly)
Anyone try Porteus Linux? I just read about it.  Anyone try Porteus Linux? I just read about it.u/Ezmiller_2•1 yr. agoAnyone try Porteus Linux? I just read about it.Sounds like it's a more organized version of Slackware?
How come there havent been any Slackware 15 updates lately? How come there havent been any Slackware 15 updates lately?u/apooroldinvestor•1 yr. agoHow come there havent been any Slackware 15 updates lately?I usually do Slackpkg update every few days.  Haven't seen any new updates for almost 3 weeks now.  Of course current is updated almost daily.  Is there a new release coming soon or something?
Why Slackware never supported AppArmor? Why Slackware never supported AppArmor?u/sdns575•1 yr. agoWhy Slackware never supported AppArmor?Hey there,since I started using Slackware I never seen AppArmor support as MAC control (neither SELinux).There is a particular motivation to this?I think that in this days would be usefull having a MAC system enabled.From what I know, on Slackware, I should recompile the kernel enabling Apparmor or Selinux and install relative utils. For SELinux things are more complicated because there more deps that need to be solved and there is some application that is SELinux aware.What do you think about this topic?Thank you in advance.
Is it worth it to update the mesa drivers to 21.3.9 from 21.3.5 ? Is it worth it to update the mesa drivers to 21.3.9 from 21.3.5 ?u/defaultlinuxuser•1 yr. agoIs it worth it to update the mesa drivers to 21.3.9 from 21.3.5 ?Slackware 15.0 comes with mesa 21.3.5 by default. I do play video games often on steam and since most if not all new games on steam require vulkan. And mesa 21.3.5 gives pretty poor support for vulkan. I tried games like war thunder and the colors were super weird and that was probably due to outdated drivers. The newest stable release of mesa is 24.3.2 I believe correct me if I'm wrong but this version requires rust 1.78 I think but slackware 15.0 comes with rust 1.58 which is too old. I know that I can update rust with rustup but have you seen the amount of source code I need to download to compile rustup ? If not here is the linkhttps://slackbuilds.org/repository/15.0/development/rustup/. I planned on installing 21.3.9 because it is a LTS release and releases after this one (I think) require a newer version than rust 1.58.1. But also a good quesion is, is it worth it ? Bothering to compile a newer mesa version, troubleshooting some stuff if something goes wrong just to get slightly better support for vulkan ? That's up to you to tell me. Thanks in advance.
Best mirror to use Best mirror to useu/Repulsive_Picture142•1 yr. agoBest mirror to use
Which kernel version is more likely to be packaged into the next Slackware release? Which kernel version is more likely to be packaged into the next Slackware release?u/Economy_Blueberry_25•1 yr. agoWhich kernel version is more likely to be packaged into the next Slackware release?EDIT:Kernel 6.12 was just adopted by the CIP for SLTS support until December 2035. Let's go!The context of this poll is the new release schedule for the LTS kernels, which are to be supported only for 2 years by the Linux core developers. This implies that now the distribution developers themselves would choose to maintain a particular kernel version and patch it themselves, if they wish to provide support and security updates for more than 2 years. Given this new release cadence, which kernel version would be more appropriate for Slackware's particular philosophy, which is about providing reliable software for the longest time possible?Poll closed33votesStay on 5.15 (by pulling security updates from some RHEL clone, this kernel could be supported until 2032, maybe?)1Upgrade to 6.1 SLTS (which will receive security patches by the CIP Project until mid-2033)10Upgrading to 6.12 LTS and upgrade the next LTS version in 2027, which means Slackware would be -current branch only9Rebase Slackware on the GNU/Hurd kernel or a BSD kernel (yeah, right...)3None of these (ask Mr. Volkerding)10
Can someone please help me get through my first install and setup? Can someone please help me get through my first install and setup?u/Repulsive_Picture142•1 yr. agoCan someone please help me get through my first install and setup?I have the iso on a 32gb usb dr. I want to put Slackware on my compaq 6910p laptop. Please helpEdit: I’m getting the error “isolinux.bin missing or corrupt” what do I do now?
X window server issues X window server issuesu/defaultlinuxuser•1 yr. agoX window server issuesQuite recently I swapped the SSD internal drive with a HDD drive. I know it sounds stupid at first to swap a SSD with a HDD but the HDD drive had much more storage (760GB more storage). Anyway I installed slackware 15.0 on it and everything went well until I started getting issues with the X window server. For example when running startx command when I log in the chances are quite high that the screen will stay black and nothing will happen. When I get the desktop environment to start properly and I leave my pc for a few hours and then I comme back on it no programs can turn on. Why ? Because of the "no protocol specified error" wich is related to X i believe. When I was using my SSD I never got any issues like that. I already tried reinstalling the whole system but it didn't help. The first time I installed slackware on the HDD it was with XFCE. Then when I reinstalled it using KDE this time  but no change.  Thanks in advance.
Slackware is a very neat distro Slackware is a very neat distrou/Tiny_Prune_4424•1 yr. agoSlackware is a very neat distroI've heard quite a bit about this distro and finally decided to try it. Absolutely worth installing in my opinion.Probably my favourite part of slack is pkgtool, while package managing seems to be a slight weakness for this distro, pkgtool makes it very easy to install packages en masse as it just automatically unpacks every single package in a chosen directory. It also runs great even on the old sony vaio I've been using it on.Overall, I've enjoyed using slack and it'll probably be sticking around for a while. Hats off to everyone who's stayed loyal to this old-timer of a distribution, lolObligatory screenshot of my desktop:https://imgur.com/a/OsAhZBt
Root BTRFS + LUKS Root BTRFS + LUKSu/x_johansen_x•1 yr. agoRoot BTRFS + LUKSHello,Would anyone have any suggestions as to what option(s) I would need to invoke when using mkinitrd following an installation to ensure that I'm able to to decrypt the luks partition that contains swap and btrfs (using subvolumes) upon reboot? If I follow the following guide:https://github.com/patrickernandes/slackware-btrfs-instalacao, which doesn't encrypt anything, I don't have any issues. That said, if I encrypt the drive with the following structure:- sda1 - EFI partition - vfat (unencrypted)- sda2 - boot partition - ext4 (unencrypted)- sda3 - luks partition (swap & root [btrfs subvolumes] )I get a kernel panic before I get prompted for a password with something akin to: VFS: unable to mount rootfs.Please note that I don't get this error if I don't use btrfs subvolumes or any other type of filesystem when using:eval $(/usr/share/mkinitrd/mkinitrd_command_generator.sh -r -k 6.12.5 -a "-l us -h /dev/cryptvg/swap") to generate my initrd.Thanks!
Can someone help me setup my first slack build on a Lenovo M710q  ThinkCentre please? Can someone help me setup my first slack build on a Lenovo M710q  ThinkCentre please?u/Repulsive_Picture142•1 yr. agoCan someone help me setup my first slack build on a Lenovo M710q  ThinkCentre please?Has 32gb ram and i7 7700 processor 1tb ssd
cannot use slackware15 repository with slackpkgplus cannot use slackware15 repository with slackpkgplusu/AcanthisittaCalm1939•1 yr. agocannot use slackware15 repository with slackpkgplushello! I recently reinstalled slackware 15 and immediately installed slackpkgplus on it, but when I try to update the slackware repositories, it writes "failed: connection error" when downloading the gpg-key and checksums. I've tried different mirrors, but the result is the same. How can I fix this issue?
What would you think if Pat started using AI and telemetry in future Slackware releases? What would you think if Pat started using AI and telemetry in future Slackware releases?u/Ezmiller_2•1 yr. agoWhat would you think if Pat started using AI and telemetry in future Slackware releases?I think I may have asked this before a couple years ago. But I was lurking onr/linuxand someone mentioned how Mozilla uses telemetry, and I was very against it. When a non-profit spends so little on paying their developers, I get suspicious. Not that they need paid millions, but they should get paid fairly.With how much work Pat and team have to do to work around systemD, I think this would be the only product I would be ok with telemetry being used.
Slack vs Deb Slack vs Deb[deleted]•1 yr. agoSlack vs DebIs slackware more stable than debian?
Pat is using Windows 11? :D Pat is using Windows 11? :Du/mmmboppe•1 yr. agoPat is using Windows 11? :Dhttps://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/slackware-14/intel-vs-amd-4175744574/page2.html#post6541471
Fetching package sources Fetching package sources[deleted]•1 yr. agoFetching package sourcesWhat would be the best way to fetch the package sources to compile my own programs? What slackbuilds just be better than using rsync?
Screen recorder for slackware Screen recorder for slackwareu/defaultlinuxuser•1 yr. agoScreen recorder for slackwareI know there is SSR (simple screen recorder) preinstalled on slackware 15.0 but when using as soon as I launch any program (even like a terminal program like vim) the video starts to lag. OBS has the exact same issue. I used GPU Screen Recorder before switching to slackware but now I can't since it's not available here. I tried using ffmpeg directly from the terminal but it's really unpractical to use. Thanks in advance.
Linux Slackware according to an Indonesian textbook about IT and FOSS Linux Slackware according to an Indonesian textbook about IT and FOSSu/CrCL_WTB•1 yr. agoLinux Slackware according to an Indonesian textbook about IT and FOSS
Neofetch Slackbuild script Neofetch Slackbuild script[deleted]•1 yr. agoNeofetch Slackbuild scripthttps://github.com/trite2k3/sbopkg-neofetchSlackbuild script for neofetch, nothing special but have fun!*edit:Post your neofetch here for funsies!?
What do I do now ? What do I do now ?u/defaultlinuxuser•1 yr. agoWhat do I do now ?
Installing programs is tedious and sucks [ramble] Installing programs is tedious and sucks [ramble][deleted]•1 yr. agoInstalling programs is tedious and sucks [ramble]I've been using debian for a while and was semi forced to use slackware a month ago for my router/server machine since debian would break the laptops install by having the wifi fuck out every week or two. I've seen ppl complain about the shotgun approach the slackware full install takes regarding the installed programs but I would've dropped slack in a heartbeat if it just threw me in the desktop with nothing but seamonkey, dolphin and xterm.Its partially windowmakers fault and partially slacks, apt get is awesome and makes my life far easier, building from source and getting windowmaker to play nice with the .desktop is misery esp since I barely understood the process and syntax of installing a .tar program on debian!I wanted to install yt-dlp and a gui frontend for this machine but have been putting that off for weeks because the learning process is so exhausting. If the program is not in a .tgz binary then I basically cant use it since I dont want to go through the trouble and give up, I've tried to understand how to install slapt get but idk wtf a meson is and there isnt even a link to the slapt source? I tried to install transmission and it took me 2 days and even after getting the damn thing to compile and I still couldn't give it a shortcut on the wmaker menu and had to link its file directory instead. This distro is so old how tf is it still so archaic and actively fights you? The ONLY reason I'm still using it is because arch doesn't support i686 and the wifi is still rock solid, I get im stupid and dont really know how to use linux even after half a year moving away from W8.1 but I daily drove debian and could effectively troubleshoot yet I can barely install programs on slack
Slackware 15 power loss reliably corrupting boot partition  Slackware 15 power loss reliably corrupting boot partitionu/pcxt21•1 yr. agoSlackware 15 power loss reliably corrupting boot partitionHi all i have a small file and media transcoding server booting Slackware 15 i686, older machine, MBR type partition table, LILO, and with my root filesystem in its own partition formatted EXT4. Currently a UPS isnt viable due to space, but it seems like every single time the machine has power interrupted for any reason be it in any state, usually dead idle my root filesystem ends up un-mountable resulting in a panic and the need to manually boot a recovery drive and run fsck on the partition. Does anyone have any software or config recommendations to help with this? Some sort of automated recovery or at least a single user console i could ssh into in the event of a boot failure? Or perhaps a filesystem i can use that's more tolerant of this type of abuse? Thanks!
Every time I open a new terminal window or a tab, a quote or something appears, what is happening here? Which program or script does this? Every time I open a new terminal window or a tab, a quote or something appears, what is happening here? Which program or script does this?u/No-Purple6360•1 yr. agoEvery time I open a new terminal window or a tab, a quote or something appears, what is happening here? Which program or script does this?
Custom building your own iso? Custom building your own iso?[deleted]•1 yr. agoCustom building your own iso?Anyone have experience creating their own slackware iso? If so, where to begin?
Building programs being very slow Building programs being very slowu/defaultlinuxuser•1 yr. agoBuilding programs being very slowI've tried to use slackware and everything has been going fine until when I tried to install a program. So I first started off with a program that doesn't require any dependencies (openttd). So I downloaded the program fromslackbuilds.organd everything has been going fine until the actual installation. I ran the .Slackbuild file and after almost an hour it was just getting close to 70%. Is there a way to accelerate this ?
It really is WILD how hard it is to "break" a Slackware system. It really is WILD how hard it is to "break" a Slackware system.u/Aurochbull•1 yr. agoIt really is WILD how hard it is to "break" a Slackware system.I've been casually using Slackware since the mid-90's. I still don't know what I'm doing, but I enjoy it. (This is more of an appreciation post, than anything.)I'm running an Asus Vivobook 15, upgraded to 20gb ram and 1tb nvme. I've made this machine multilib to play around with running WoW (no need, but purely intellectual) via Lutris. Alien BOB's compat 32 libraries are rock solid. (As is everything Eric does, I've found). I don't mean to exclude any other major contributors, but I have experience with what I have experience with, and obviously nothing more.After going multilib, I decided that I don't really have any need for it. So, using sboui to remove Lutris, I used slackpkg to update, upgrade-all, clean-system, etc. This shit JUST WORKS. Once someone has a (very) basic command line understanding of how to modify the system, it's almost too easy.I used slackpkg to upgrade and clean the system and it just worked. I figured I would easily "brick" my machine, and just reinstall, which was a fine option. But no. I (my dumb ass) was able to just upgrade libraries back to 64 bit and then clean the system to remove all of the 32 bit (I guess?).This experience is so "modular" that I can't even believe it. Even if I'm messing things up (a given), there is no way to knock Slackware. I can only break this machine by haphazardly doing kernel upgrades (which I may or may not have done in the past).Thank you Pat and Eric and everyone else who "does what they do for this OS".Slackware 15 + XFCE = "Zen for me". I can't wait to see what the future brings...
How to make resolv immutable How to make resolv immutableu/AcanthisittaCalm1939•1 yr. agoHow to make resolv immutableHello! I want to install the zapret program, for it I needed the dnscrypt-proxy package that I've installed from SlackBuilds, as well as edit resolv.conf file, however, this file overwrites every time I reboot. I tried to make resolve.conf immutable, but it didn't help because the chattr +i command gives me this error "chattr operation not supported while reading flags on /etc/resolv.conf". How do I make resolv immutable?
So why would Slackware see my EMC SaS enclosure, but not my SSD? This happened on Ubuntu as well. So why would Slackware see my EMC SaS enclosure, but not my SSD? This happened on Ubuntu as well.u/Ezmiller_2•1 yr. agoSo why would Slackware see my EMC SaS enclosure, but not my SSD? This happened on Ubuntu as well.I've been messing around with server hardware and making a home media server, which doesn't actually need a metal server to work, just something that works with multiple disks. I wish I had listened to that inner voice that told me so.Anyway, I started having problems when I wanted to choose which drive to format and use. I wanted to use my SSD to boot from, and then use the SAS for media storage.But after fdisking my drives, Slackware and Ubuntu both only saw my SAS. Or Slackware saw both, but would only let me choose the SAS. Ubuntu...ugh that was another story all together. No, they did the same thing. Saw both drives, but the Slackware installer didn't see the SDD (/dev/sda) as a choice for /, which I had setup with Cfdisk. Whereas Ubuntu tried to use my SAS as the first drive, which would be painful to use as a booting drive.
Slackware and KVM problem Slackware and KVM problemu/sdns575•1 yr. agoSlackware and KVM problemHi,I've installed Slackware64 on an KVM VM, I updated the kernel but on reboot I get:"ls: /dev/vda2: No such file or directory"I'm using kernel generic and created initrd image with modules ext4 and virtio but it does not work.What modules should be added to make the device visible on boot?Thank you in advance
New laptop, bad initrd? New laptop, bad initrd?u/hymie0•1 yr. agoNew laptop, bad initrd?Edit: TLDR: it looks like the 5.5 kernel would not work with (my?) nvme. I copied the 5.4.75 kernel from the install DVD, then downloaded and compiled 6.11, and I'm good.==========So I just bought a new laptop (not by choice), an HP Envy with NVME diskI'm pretty sure I went through the installation correctly, but it won't boot.I get the ELILO 3.16 prompt, thenLoading kernel vmlinuz doneLoading file initrd.gz doneThen it hangs for 60 seconds.Then I get errors ... (sorry but I have to type it)jbd2: exports duplicate symbol jbd2__journal_restart (owned by kernel)Could not insert jbd2: Exec format error(Similar error for mbcache)jbd2: exports duplicate symbol jbd2__journal_restart (owned by kernel)Could not insert ext4: Exec format errorMounting /dev/nvme0n1p2 on /mnt failed: No such file or directoryThen I'm dumped to a prompt inside what I think is the initrd.Indeed, there are no dev files for my NVME0 disk.I'm guessing this is something wrong with my initrd, but (if so) I have no idea how to fix it.Any suggestions would be appreciated.
Is anyone using Slackware + Nix? Is anyone using Slackware + Nix?u/CorysInTheHouse69•1 yr. agoIs anyone using Slackware + Nix?If so, how is it?
rc.local does not execute as expected rc.local does not execute as expectedu/OkProcedure7904•1 yr. agorc.local does not execute as expectedSo it's kind of a long story. But a few years ago I bought a laptop from walmart. It's nothing special, just some gateway laptop with pretty basic stats. And I've been running Slackware current on it for a couple of years.I leave this laptop in the living room attached to a TV and it's used by the whole family. Basically used as a TV and occasionally for projects/games.Around five or six months ago, I noticed that the battery became "spicy." So I removed the battery due to safety/fire concerns. This laptop just sits in the living room most of the time anyway.Now the actual problem is that this computer does not have a CMOS battery, so if the power cable is ever disconnected the date resets to Dec/2019. And because that date is so far off, the vast majority of web services do not allow connection. The date can simply be reset using ntpdate, but I'd like it to automatically set the date on startup.What I've tried:I've tried checking the "get date and time automatically" box in KDE's settings manger. It tells me "unable to execute"More recently I tried to make a simple /etc/rc.d/rc.local script to just runntpdatepool.ntp.orgIf I execute the script (as root) after boot/login, it works.Am I misusing /etc/rc.d/rc.local?Is there a better way to accomplish my goal?Should I just get a new battery?Edit: the actual script#!/bin/sh  #enable logging set -x  /usr/bin/ntpdate -s pool.ntp.org  exit 0Final edit:Turns out I'm a dope and forgot to un-comment a server in ntp.confNow after a few minutes of logging into KDE the time updates.Thank you everyone for helping. Probably going to followu/Illusion's suggestion and get a new battery.
How would I give myself permission to write to a SAS enclosure? How would I give myself permission to write to a SAS enclosure?u/Ezmiller_2•1 yr. agoHow would I give myself permission to write to a SAS enclosure?I'm using Pop right now, but I'm about to try Slackware on my home media server using Jellyfin and an old EMC SAS enclosure. I think it's LVM or whatever the newer distros use that's making things hard for me.
sbozyp - a package manager for SlackBuilds.org sbozyp - a package manager for SlackBuilds.orgu/nicholas_hubbard•1 yr. agosbozyp - a package manager for SlackBuilds.orgHello! I wrote a package manager forSlackBuilds.orgcalled sbozyp. I have been working on it for quite a while and it is finally ready to be shared with you guys. I would really appreciate any feedback I can get on it. Even if you don't want to try it, it would be helpful if you could read the manual and let me know if anything is unclear. All information about sbozyp can be found onits GitHub page. Thanks!(cross-posted on linuxquestions.org)
How do you manage user specific services? How do you manage user specific services?u/paltry_unity_sausage•1 yr. agoHow do you manage user specific services?So I've been using slackware on one of my devices for a little bit and I'm learning about theinitsystem.It is pretty intuitive and I've written a simple service to make sure my wireguard interfaces to get setup at boot and added it to rc.local.Of course, rc.local gets executed when slackware executes the run level script for multi-user mode, i.e. before any user actually logs in.However, I have some background services, syncthing that I would want to start only when some specific user logs in.On a systemd system I would usually be able to run a command likesystemctl --user enable syncthingwhich would enable the service upon login for my user, so I'm basically trying to recreate that behavior.So I'm wondering how you guys handle this, and what theslackware wayto do this would be?
What's the best FS for an old school SAS enclosure? Or does it matter? What's the best FS for an old school SAS enclosure? Or does it matter?u/Ezmiller_2•1 yr. agoWhat's the best FS for an old school SAS enclosure? Or does it matter?I have been working on getting my EMC SAS enclosure working correctly for the past few months. I should have asked for help here. Anyway, all but 5 drives have blue lights above them. Those 5 work fine, but no blue light. Not sure why. But what FS would you recommend? I was thinking of going with ext4 or btrfs.
from 14.2 to 15.0 hp printer stops working from 14.2 to 15.0 hp printer stops workingu/PiccoloContribuente•1 yr. agofrom 14.2 to 15.0 hp printer stops workingHello, I decided to go 15.0 from 14.2, everything ok but printing.I have been unable to make my old HP laser jet CP1025nw print (CUPS).On 14.2 I usedDriver: HP LaserJet Pro CP1025nw Foomatic/foo2zjs-z3 (recommended) (color)Connection: hp:/usb/HP_LaserJet_CP_1025nw?serial=0W245ZGZPR1aBut now, if I understand it correctly, I need ghostscript-printer?Did somebody solve this before, and willing to help?TYSOLVEDcorrect driver (there are 4) is:HP LaserJet cp1025nw, hpcups 3.20.5, requires proprietary plugin (color)(edit: formatting)also (not sure if needed) printer up at boot time
Cups-browsed Security issue patched Cups-browsed Security issue patchedu/GENielsen•1 yr. agoCups-browsed Security issue patchedCups-browsed security issue patched in the October 1, 2024 changelog.ap/cups-2.4.11-x86_64-1.txz:  Upgraded. ap/cups-browsed-2.0.1-x86_64-2.txz:  Rebuilt.   Mitigate security issue that could lead to a denial of service or   the execution of arbitrary code.   Rebuilt with --with-browseremoteprotocols=none to disable incoming   connections, since this daemon has been shown to be insecure. If you   actually use cups-browsed, be sure to install the new   /etc/cups/cups-browsed.conf.new containing this line:   BrowseRemoteProtocols none   For more information, see:     https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2024-47176   (* Security fix *)ap/cups-2.4.11-x86_64-1.txz:  Upgraded. ap/cups-browsed-2.0.1-x86_64-2.txz:  Rebuilt.   Mitigate security issue that could lead to a denial of service or   the execution of arbitrary code.   Rebuilt with --with-browseremoteprotocols=none to disable incoming   connections, since this daemon has been shown to be insecure. If you   actually use cups-browsed, be sure to install the new   /etc/cups/cups-browsed.conf.new containing this line:   BrowseRemoteProtocols none   For more information, see:     https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2024-47176   (* Security fix *)
Installer oddity Installer oddity[deleted]•1 yr. agoInstaller odditySo I was having trouble installing/booting this distro for days and couldn't understand why. And I ultimately found out it was because when Slack scans/sets up the EFI partition during the installer, it's automatically using the USB key I used to boot the installer instead of the partition I made in gdisk that's CLEARLY set as EF00.If I pull out the USB stick while after setting up partitions - it finds /dev/nvme0n1p1 (what I set it as) automatically and formats it as vfat -f32 and hums right along.This fact escaped me because - who actually looks what drive it sets up as EFI? At least I didn't. So what gives? Is it just the naming convention? /dev/sda as far as I remember used to be physical drives (the spin kind). They got repurposed at some point for USB devices. Maybe that's what is happening? It sees SDA and assumes that's where I want it?Also - why when using LUKS does it always set the /dev/mapper/<name> as luks<drivename>example:no matter what I mount it as, it just automatically names it /dev/mapper/luksnvme0n1p3 (or whichever number it is)
Question about building a dedicated PC for Slackware (package installation times) Question about building a dedicated PC for Slackware (package installation times)u/Aurochbull•1 yr. agoQuestion about building a dedicated PC for Slackware (package installation times)I've been running Slackware 15.0 on my Ryzen 3 3200U laptop for about a year. Mostly for my own learning, I decided to go multilib and try to get World of Warcraft to work. I'm happy to report success there (although performance is abysmal, but it's not really a normal use case for this machine).When I installed Lutris via sboui, it took nearly 6 hours. I know the APU in this laptop is no monster but I thought it with 20GB ddr4 and a pcie 3.0 nvme would perform a little better.So, if I wanted to build a machine that would handle package installation (from sbo, alien Bob, and slackpkg), what components have the largest impact? To be honest, this machine won't likely be doing much heavy lifting - just more day-to-day stuff, but I'd like packages to not take hours to install.I was thinking something like a mini itx build with 5700g, 32GB ddr4 3600 cl 16 and a Samsung 970 EVO Plus 1 tb.Thanks in advance!
New to Slackware DRACUT New to Slackware DRACUTu/GENielsen•1 yr. agoNew to Slackware DRACUTWed Sep 18 21:23:19 UTC 2024 a/btrfs-progs-6.11-x86_64-1.txz:  Upgraded. a/dracut-103-x86_64-1.txz:  Added.   This is Red Hat's tool to generate an initramfs (aka initrd). Around here,   we try not to suffer from Not Invented Here Syndrome (some might say the   less we invent, the better ;-). It never hurts to have additional options,   and it even looks like our old friend David Cantrell is on the AUTHORS list.   I've had good luck here with:     dracut --hostonly --force /boot/initrd-6.10.11-generic.img   Thanks to Didier Spaier for convincing me to try it out. a/gawk-5.3.1-x86_64-1.txz:  Upgraded. a/kernel-generic-6.10.11-x86_64-1.txz:  Upgraded. a/upower-1.90.6-x86_64-1.txz:  Upgraded. d/kernel-headers-6.10.11-x86-1.txz:  Upgraded. k/kernel-source-6.10.11-noarch-1.txz:  Upgraded. l/libtiff-4.7.0-x86_64-1.txz:  Upgraded. n/curl-8.10.1-x86_64-1.txz:  Upgraded. x/mesa-24.2.3-x86_64-1.txz:  Upgraded. isolinux/initrd.img:  Rebuilt. kernels/*:  Upgraded. usb-and-pxe-installers/usbboot.img:  Rebuilt.  New to Slackware dracut.  Cool.  :)
R.I.P kernel-huge R.I.P kernel-huge[deleted]•1 yr. agoR.I.P kernel-hugea/kernel-huge-6.10.9-x86_64-1.txz:  Removed.So long, we won't miss you.If you were actually using kernel-huge with one of the SCSI/SAS drivers that were built in, you'll need to use kernel-generic and an initrd that contains the needed drivers. Otherwise, just switch to kernel-generic. It'll be fine. If unsure, make an initrd with geninitrd and have your bootloader use it.Wow
How to update ELILO bootloader after a kernel upgrade ? How to update ELILO bootloader after a kernel upgrade ?u/CoffeeWise•1 yr. agoHow to update ELILO bootloader after a kernel upgrade ?I just upgrade my slackware 15  withslackpkg upgrade-alland rebooted it without updating ELILO, it stuck at boot. As I duckduckgo it I realized I had to update a bootloader cause it might have upgraded my kernel too. So as other users suggests in this subreddit I quickly chroot into my slackware and didgeninitrdand copiedvmlinuz-genericandinitrd.gzto/boot/efi/EFI/Slackwareand rebooted the machine. No changes, it stuck atloading kernel vmlinuz... done loading file initrd.gz...doneAny help will be greatly appreciated 🙏[Edited] never forget to upgrade bootloader in slackware witheliloconfigotherwise will be clown like me
 DUG#7 & vPub 0xC - an exciting opensource online event on September 12th!  DUG#7 & vPub 0xC - an exciting opensource online event on September 12th!u/3mdeb•1 yr. agoDUG#7 & vPub 0xC - an exciting opensource online event on September 12th!Hello All,We’re excited to invite you to a special online event onSeptember 12th at 4 PM UTC! 🚀Dasharo User Group (DUG)is your go-to forum for Dasharo enthusiasts—whether you’re a seasoned user or just curious! This is your chance to dive deep into the latest developments, new features, and exciting updates in the Dasharo ecosystem. It’s the perfect opportunity to connect, share knowledge, and learn about new features and updates that are coming to Dasharo.💡But that’s not all! We’ll also be hostingDevelopers vPub 0xC, a more laid-back, open-format session where the conversation flows freely. Grab your favourite beverage 🍻, and join in as we chat about anything and everything related to open-source firmware and hardware.Expect some fascinating talks from industry experts:Regalis,Philipp Deppenwiese from Binarly,Stuart Yoder from Arm, and last but not least,Michał Żygowski from 3mdeb, who will present an exciting demo of Dasharo on Odroid H4+! There will also be plenty of time for an open, relaxed discussion where everyone can contribute. 🙌Mark your calendars—you won’t want to miss it! ✨Join links & full schedule are available here:https://vpub.dasharo.com/e/14/dasharo-user-group-7Register for free at:https://vpub.dasharo.com/e/14/dasharo-user-group-7/#tickets
In your opinion - what's the future of Slackware?  In your opinion - what's the future of Slackware?u/Working-Cable-1152•1 yr. agoIn your opinion - what's the future of Slackware?Good day, friends.The story of Slackware is quite something considering the fact it's (as far as I know) one of the oldest active distros out there with Debian. On the other hand I think I dont have to point out Debian and the family of Debian based distributions are way much popular than Slackware family. Why is that?I mean I only started with Linux like 3 years ago and my daily driver is openSUSE Tumbleweed these days (and I fricking love it :) ) but I was always very curious about Slackware as well! One think about Linux based operating system is the fact there is so much diversity when it comes to all the flavours and distributions and all that stuff.I also personally love the fact that even if all of us are using something different we still are very friendly with each other and all of us contribute as best as we can to Linux from our perspective. You use Debian? Cool with me! You use Arch? Nice! You use Mint, Ubuntu, Fedora, RHEL,...? Hey dude, way to go! :) or at least that's my perspective. That's why I hope Slackware has a positive fortune ahead of itself. Maybe it won't become the most popular distro ever but I would certainly love if Slackware could stick around and keep contributing to the whole Linux world in years to come.TL;DR : Could you tell me what's your opinion on the Slackware's future please?Many thanks! Wish you a nice day everyone!
liveslak install customization config script  liveslak install customization config script[deleted]•1 yr. agoliveslak install customization config scriptHi Team,I'm working on a configuration script to run after liveslak install. The script should take care of updating config files like groups, sudoers, install optional packages, and the like. Anyone think the script is a good or bad idea? Or does anyone else use a script to wrap up a liveslak install?
Show off....but I am good at it :)  Show off....but I am good at it :)u/unixbhaskar•1 yr. agoShow off....but I am good at it :)
Slackware Setup (SD Card mount) Slackware Setup (SD Card mount)u/guilhermegnzaga•1 yr. agoSlackware Setup (SD Card mount)So I'm up to install slackware in a laptop with no working USB ports, so my guess is that i could use the SD Card to install the distro. As I'm using slack like 10 years from now I've never figured it out how to mount the setupdir (sdcard) and the root dir in the proper locations in this situation.How can Imount the sd card during the setupto install the OS on the disk?
What do you think about new gen filesystem? What do you think about new gen filesystem?u/sdns575•2 yr. agoWhat do you think about new gen filesystem?Hi,as in the title, what do you think about new gen fs like Btrfs, ZFS and bcache fs.In what way they changed your life and is it worth using them versus normal fs like Ext4 or XFS?Actually I'm using ZFS on a backup server for work purpose and it reduced managment of several layers (mdadm, LVM plus FS) and added some key feature like file compression and integrity check.Never used Btrfs really on production due to "horror story telling". Have you any experiences of BTRFS?Thank you in advance
Error Installing Slackware 15 Error Installing Slackware 15u/Bad-Mouse•2 yr. agoError Installing Slackware 15I’m trying to install Slackware 15 on an old Poweredge server and when it gets to the part where it wants me to set the root password it fails with: chroot cannot execute /usr/bin/passwd input/output errorSo I just hit no, and then it says Installation Complete. But it doesn’t ask to install Lilo. Install just ends early. I did some searching but didn’t find much.Tried Slackware 14.2 and it installs and works just fine. Is there something I’m missing or is 15 just not going to install on this server? Thanks,
[ ERROR ] Verification of the GPG signature on CHECKSUMS.md5 [ ERROR ] Verification of the GPG signature on CHECKSUMS.md5u/CoffeeWise•2 yr. ago[ ERROR ] Verification of the GPG signature on CHECKSUMS.md5Hey everyone, I'm on Lenovo IdeaPad 3 Ryzen 5700U with slackware15 installed. I'm kinda new to slackware and I'm trying to update it by using slackpkg update. I also delete /root/.gnupg and did slackpkg update gpg before slackpkg update as other forum suggest but it didn't work. I also changed the mirror to others 4, 5 times  and currently I'm onhttp://mirrors.ustc.edu.cn/slackware/slackware64-15.0/, any help would be really really appreciated... 'cause It's my only machine and I can't do anything.
Is it worth learn Slackware in 2024 for work? Is it worth learn Slackware in 2024 for work?u/sdns575•2 yr. agoIs it worth learn Slackware in 2024 for work?Hi,as in the title, is it worth learning Slaclware for work purpose like server and workstation?Thank you in advance
grub not launching after kernel update + upgrade-all grub not launching after kernel update + upgrade-allu/Specific_Tart_3389•2 yr. agogrub not launching after kernel update + upgrade-allJust updated to 5.9.6 -> 5.9.12 and now my grub is just fast blinking once with something likegrub can't find fontno video module foundcan't read this one?Yeah I have run the grub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfgAny chance to get the system working or am I to reinstall from scratch?
Tips on setting up a real good slackware system Tips on setting up a real good slackware systemu/MD90__•2 yr. agoTips on setting up a real good slackware systemI've been using Linux for over a year now mostly running the systemd based distros like Debian (my favorite), Arch, NixOS, and Fedora. I've only ran slackware once and ended up borking the system on trying to update the kernel manually. I always seem to get that part wrong. Ive been aiming to run slackware in a VM to practice more using it in order to get the hang of it more with sys v init, LILO (yes you can use grub), and trying to maually fix broken slackbuilds. My hope is this run i can become really good at using slackware to a point of more bare metal runs. With that being said, any tips on packages, tools, and other things that can help make this system really stable, work well, and make some things easier to do if normally difficult? I for some reason keep coming back to this distro like I really want to learn it and embrace it. The only issue I have is just linux skills are still new, so many mistakes are made. Any advice would be great!I'd also like know suggestions on getting other DE's since im not a fan of KDE or XFCE. I mostly run cinnamon and mate. Thanks in advance!
Help with dual-booting along side Windows 10 on laptop Help with dual-booting along side Windows 10 on laptopu/zommyzomman•2 yr. agoHelp with dual-booting along side Windows 10 on laptopHello, after looking for a while for a non-systemd distro I have came across slackware. I have successfully installed Slackware into a VM and know how to install it. But the problem is the bootloader. I have no experience with ELILO and would perfer to use grub. I also want to becareful and use the current EFI partition that Windows 10 is using. Could someone tell me how to install grub to the existing EFI partition or a new one and how to create a new EFI entry from efibootmgr since my motherboard does NOT support adding boot entries. My laptop is a HP x360 pavillion and currently runs Windows 10 LTSC 2019
I broke and fixed my system after kernel upgrade, but I need help understanding why the fix worked. I broke and fixed my system after kernel upgrade, but I need help understanding why the fix worked.u/ellisdeez•2 yr. agoI broke and fixed my system after kernel upgrade, but I need help understanding why the fix worked.Good evening everyone and sorry for the long post.  So I'm new to Slackware and Linux in general.  I installed Slackware successfully the other day and it went great, but I had problems after updating/upgrading packages withslackpkg.  The kernel "upgraded" from 5.15.19 to 5.15.161 and I saw the warning that I would have to update the bootloader as well.  I raneliloconfigthinking that was all I had to do.So I ended up with a system that wouldn't boot. I did some searching and found that I could use the USB install media to boot into the huge kernel, after which I ran these commands, which I found by searching this subreddit:geninitrdcp /boot/vmlinuz-generic /boot/efi/EFI/Slackware/vmlinuzcp /boot/initrd.gz /boot/efi/EFI/Slackware/initrd.gzVery gladly, this worked, but I'm hoping someone can help me wrap my head around why it worked.  After doing some reading, here is what I think is happening:When the system boots, elilo loads the kernel and the initial ramdisk from/boot/efi/EFI/Slackware/vmlinuzand/boot/efi/EFI/Slackware/initrd.gzrespectively.  After upgrading, the new kernel is located at/boot/vmlinuz-genericand it has to be copied to the location listed above in order for elilo to load it.  Then, I have to manually create a new ramdisk for the new kernel (geninitrd) which is created at the location/boot/initrd.gz, which also has to be copied to the location listed above in order for elilo to load it.Do I have this correct? Is there an easier way to do it? Thanks in advance for your help.
Question about SBo Question about SBou/sdns575•2 yr. agoQuestion about SBoHi,I'm using a script that build packages from SBo. I have a question about SBo releases, for release I mean 14.2, 15.0....It's common that deps for a given software changes inside an SBo release? It should not remain in a "stable" state to avoid problems?For example, I noticed that ansible got its deps changed and added ansible-core.This is a common behaviour for SBo? This not break compatibility with older version of installed software?How to detect if a software got new deps other than read on SBo? In the update message sent in sbo mailing list there is not a changelog (something like what changed, why upgraded, wjy fixed...like an advisory published by the slackbuild maintainer)In case I found a new deps for a specified software, I should recompile it completely (the software and all deps) or I need build only the new deps and the software itself?What is the main distribution policy of SBo: stability, security, always updating (something bleeding edge) or simple release slackbuilds?Thank you in advance and sorry for this strange question.
i just made a unofficial Slackware website i just made a unofficial Slackware website[deleted]•2 yr. agoi just made a unofficial Slackware websitewebsite:https://stuffbymax.me/unofficial-slackware/source:https://github.com/stuffbymax/unofficial-slackware
Now more than ever Now more than everu/Turbulent-Koala-420•2 yr. agoNow more than everI've seen a lot of posts in recent years questioning the relevance of Slackware in the current Linux landscape. My contention is that Slackware is now more than ever something that is very much needed in a world of increasingly encroaching AI as well as other technologies. The emergence of these "advanced" technologies has really caused me to sit back and reconsider what's truly important to me both as a user and for preserving the more basic tenets (and dare I say humanity) of computing and has led me back to using Slackware after more than 10 years away. I have to say that I'm somewhat thankful for this kick in the conscience by the likes of ChatGPT and Copilot for forcing me to get back to getting my hands dirty and doing more things for myself. I think this time I may be here to stay. I believe the work being done on this distro going forward is more important than it ever was, and I'm here for it.
What happened to Slackel? What happened to Slackel?[deleted]•2 yr. agoWhat happened to Slackel?Their slackware current changelog does not move for a week against the upstream slackware current. Any ideas why it doesn't update for week? Slackel always got updated after 1-3 days not a week.
Boot floppy for Slackware 4.0 won't boot? Boot floppy for Slackware 4.0 won't boot?u/sillyconvallyaspie•2 yr. agoBoot floppy for Slackware 4.0 won't boot?I downloaded the "bare.i" boot floppy for Slackware 4.0 and wrote it onto a CF card, but it doesn't seem to want to boot on my Pocket 386 (prints LI 80 80 80...). Other floppy images I wrote to CF booted successfully; this strategy is not as strange as it sounds.How can I install Slackware 4 on my new Pocket 386 (386SX, 8MB, Cirrus Logic VGA, 2GB CF via XTIDE)?
Installed Slackware 15 on external storages (both external usb HDD and micro SD card but failed to configure/install Grub/Grub2 - using ELILO. All the guidelines got from Net didn't work. Installed Slackware 15 on external storages (both external usb HDD and micro SD card but failed to configure/install Grub/Grub2 - using ELILO. All the guidelines got from Net didn't work.u/ImaginaryRelief_7791•2 yr. agoInstalled Slackware 15 on external storages (both external usb HDD and micro SD card but failed to configure/install Grub/Grub2 - using ELILO. All the guidelines got from Net didn't work.
Slackware and slackbuilds.org packages Slackware and slackbuilds.org packagesu/sdns575•2 yr. agoSlackware and slackbuilds.org packagesHi,How do you manage update for packages built from slackbuilds.org?Thank you in advance
flatpak: Can't mount proc on /newroot/proc flatpak: Can't mount proc on /newroot/procu/stroudmw•2 yr. agoflatpak: Can't mount proc on /newroot/procI installed flatpak on Slackware 15 this morning using Alienbob's Slackbuilds. I've installed something (Goodvibes) but whenever I try to run it I get this:bwrap: Can't mount proc on /newroot/proc: Operation not permittedHow do I fix this?I've tried:flatpak --userrun io.gitlab.Goodvibeswith and without --user and with sudo, but it still fails.Thanks
DUG#6& vPub 0xB opensource online Party! Today at 4 PM UTC DUG#6& vPub 0xB opensource online Party! Today at 4 PM UTCu/Mike-Banon1•2 yr. agoDUG#6& vPub 0xB opensource online Party! Today at 4 PM UTCDUG #6 & vPub 0xB opensource online Party! - today at 4 PM UTCr/linuxhardware•2 yr. agoDUG #6 & vPub 0xB opensource online Party! - today at 4 PM UTCTo avoid missing out future events, join ourtiny-volume event notification newsletter(no spam, just ~4 e-mails per year)Dear Friends, I invite you to a joint "DUG#6 & vPub 0xB" event that starts 13th June at 4 PM UTC :on DUG we will discuss theDasharo distribution of coreboot opensource PC firmware(much better than a typical closed-source UEFI: it provides the hardened security, high quality, cool features and almost-lifetime upgrades!)and explore the new supported platforms: in particular you will see aspecial demoof upcoming NovaCustom V54/V56 laptops with modern & powerful Intel 14th Gen Meteor Lake CPUs that support this “opensource BIOS”vPub will feature our prominent guests from Intel and Karlsruhe Institute of Technology with a couple of interesting talks, and - most importantly - acosy free-for-all chatabout anything opensource firmware/hardware-related!Join links & full schedule are available here:DUG#6 & vPub 0xB opensource online Party!2upvotes
How to create elilo boot usb stick for the existing system How to create elilo boot usb stick for the existing systemu/DerShokus•2 yr. agoHow to create elilo boot usb stick for the existing systemHi! I broke my elilo-boot-usb-stick and would like to make another one. I can chroot to my system, but how can I create a bootable usb from there?
6.9 to Salix? 6.9 to Salix?u/oradba•2 yr. ago6.9 to Salix?Given the existence ofhttps://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-1086, and the availability of version 6.9 of the kernel in Slackware-current, does anyone have an idea of when said update will flow through to Salix?
Halp with steam on nVidia Halp with steam on nVidia[deleted]•2 yr. agoHalp with steam on nVidiaHey guys.Got a new laptop and installed slackware --current (XFCE).Installed Grub2, upgraded system and multilib.Installed steam from alienbob.Installed nVidia drivers from Ponce¨s repository and they do work nicely.Now canẗ start steam, gettingXRRGetOutputInfo Workaround: initialized with override: 0 real: 0xf60e1920XRRGetCrtcInfo Workaround: initialized with override: 0 real: 0xf60dffd0src/vgui2/src/surface_linux.cpp (1954) : glXChooseVisual failedsrc/vgui2/src/surface_linux.cpp (1954) : glXChooseVisual failedsrc/vgui2/src/surface_linux.cpp (1954) : Fatal assert; application exitingsrc/vgui2/src/surface_linux.cpp (1954) : Fatal assert; application exiting06/01 16:41:55 Init: Installing breakpad exception handler for appid(steam)/version(1716584667)/tid(4832)steamwebhelper.sh[4839]: === Sat Jun 1 16:41:55 EEST 2024 ===steamwebhelper.sh[4839]: Starting steamwebhelper under bootstrap sniper steam runtime at /home/mi/.local/share/Steam/ubuntu12_64/steam-runtime-sniperassert_20240601164155_8.dmp[4866]: Uploading dump (out-of-process)/tmp/dumps/assert_20240601164155_8.dmpbash-5.2$ assert_20240601164155_8.dmp[4866]: Finished uploading minidump (out-of-process): success = yesassert_20240601164155_8.dmp[4866]: response: CrashID=bp-60abcee8-2d65-48d2-967f-a196f2240601assert_20240601164155_8.dmp[4866]: file ''/tmp/dumps/assert_20240601164155_8.dmp'', load yes: ''CrashID=bp-60abcee8-2d65-48d2-967f-a196f2240601''Tried to reinstall multilib but nothing... Any ideas?Laptop in question:Laptop HP Omen 16-wd0013dx 16.1" 1920x1080 IPS 144Hz i5-13420H,16GB,512GB,Nvidia GeForce RTX 4050 6GB,W11H,Shadow Black,Backlit US
What server brand, style, or series has given you the least trouble with hardware and software? What server brand, style, or series has given you the least trouble with hardware and software?u/Ezmiller_2•2 yr. agoWhat server brand, style, or series has given you the least trouble with hardware and software?I'm looking at making a small home media server for myself. Just a simple one for ripping all my dvds, and then using it as a backup as well for when I decide to clean my gaming rig out.I have an IBM/Lenovo X3550 that works well, but it pretty old. Like 2008 or so. DDR2 RAM. That old. I also have a Lenovo X3550 M5 that likes to act like a girl every time I turn it off and on again. I haven't figured out what is wrong with it yet. It's much much newer. I was thinking of buying a SAS JBOD or something similar for cheap.The thing is, I don't need to to be running 24/7. Any suggestions? I don't HAVE TO have server hardware, but I thought it might make it simpler?
Just a quick question. How do you pronounce GUI? Just a quick question. How do you pronounce GUI?u/Ezmiller_2•2 yr. agoJust a quick question. How do you pronounce GUI?I was watching a YouTuber video on something Linux-related the other day and the host pronounced the letters G U I and I have always pronounced the word Gooey. Have I been wrong this whole time? I guess it doesn’t really matter. It’s sort of like the JIF and Garden Gnome desktop argument. I prefer Garden Gnome pronunciation because Gnome kinda turns your desktop into tablet UI which annoys me.
Alien Bob's Latest Email Alien Bob's Latest Emailu/AutomatedCabbage•2 yr. agoAlien Bob's Latest EmailI was hoping we could take pause for a moment and dedicate a non-technical post to Alien Bob.Based on his email, it appears Eric's mom is passing/has passed.I just wanted to share my condolences
How to install fast fetch How to install fast fetchu/g00d_vib3zzz_11•2 yr. agoHow to install fast fetchSo I went to slackbuilds then downloaded the tar.gz file tried doing install pkg didn't work so went to documentation extracted it with tar -xvf then did the chmod +x fastfetch.SlackBuild cmd as root then did ./chemtool.SlackBuild but it says file not found ( I did do cd /home/user/Downloads/fastfetch/)
Is regulatory.db part of the firmware package on Slackware? Got regulatory.db , firmware not found error in syslog Is regulatory.db part of the firmware package on Slackware? Got regulatory.db , firmware not found error in syslogu/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoIs regulatory.db part of the firmware package on Slackware? Got regulatory.db , firmware not found error in syslogI updated to the latest Slackware current kernel 6.9.1 and used the firmware from Slackware current.  I got a complaint about "regulatory.db firmware not found and it returned -2 in my syslog.  Everything worked fine as far as I can tell though. I'm not using Slackware current though, I'm still using Slackware 15, but for my hardware I have to use kernel 6.x.xSo I found the files in question in an older firmware that was from Slackware 15 I think and copied them into the /lib/firmware directory and now don't get the error.I'm wondering though.  Why isn't regulatory.db in the latest kernel firmware packages?  Shouldn't any of the latest firmware packages have all the old stuff too?
Can't startx Can't startxu/Mysterious_Thing•2 yr. agoCan't startx
🤣 Slackware64-Current is current once more!  🤣 Slackware64-Current is current once more!u/Chaz_Broam•2 yr. ago•Brand Affiliate🤣 Slackware64-Current is current once more!Slackware64-Current just upgraded to Linux Kernel 6.9.0!
Slackware and C++ Slackware and C++[deleted]•2 yr. agoSlackware and C++is Slackware a good distro to use for C++ programming? I am beginning my C++ journey using udemy and youtube videos.
Slackware 15 and Secure Boot Slackware 15 and Secure Bootu/sdns575•2 yr. agoSlackware 15 and Secure BootHi,I would like to know if Slackware supports UEFI Secure Boot. From what I can see most distro like Debian, AlmaLinux, Ubuntu LTS have Microsoft certificate for the chain of trust and they sign their kernel and modules with the certificate (if I'm not wrong).Slackware has something similar or I should create my own certificate?Thank you in advance
Fresh Install of Slackware Fresh Install of Slackware[deleted]•2 yr. agoFresh Install of SlackwareGood Day Everyone,I am trying to set up partitions, however I wanna mention upfront I am guilty of distro hopping and trying to create partitions. However following the slackware online pdf book I am trying to set up my partitions on my sda. However I get out of range error on parition 2. I have tried doing some research on how to wipe out sda but seems theres a lot of different responses. I am not understanding how or what command to run.
Upgrading pieces of Slackware to current vs. The whole enchilada Upgrading pieces of Slackware to current vs. The whole enchiladau/FrogCola•2 yr. agoUpgrading pieces of Slackware to current vs. The whole enchiladaI've been having difficulties for the past few days trying to upgrade from 15 to current. I bumped heads with the aaa_glibc issues, gpg errors, xserver (or something) going kaput because lib.so.6 (or something like that) cannot be found.I asked myself, why am I doing all this? The answer was because I want to play baldurs gate 3! In order to do that I need new vulkan drivers, which needs new mesa, which needs new solibs and on and on...My question is this; is there a practical way to get new vulkan drivers without doing a full upgrade? If there is not, what can I do to upgrade to current without slackpkg? The slackware-nl website and alien-bob iso's have not worked for me thus far, using the plain old dd command.Thanks!Edit: Has it ever happened to you, that something doesn't work, and then you ask someone to come help you and suddenly it's working just fine? That just happened to me... Thanks guys! I ended up just trying alienbob's current iso again and it worked!
udisks2 udisks2u/pm_junkie•2 yr. agoudisks2I'm getting a lot of this in dmesg.[31587.180848] traps: udisksd[13083] trap int3 ip:7f1b70bfa69a sp:7ffed20a0e70 error:0 in libglib-2.0.so.0.8000.0[7f1b70bb5000+94000]The machine runs current, plasma 5. I checked deps with ldd I can't find anything missing. Anybody else?Edit: I had not installed libnvme, it's needed by udisks2.
Uptime 425 days! Uptime 425 days!u/DicerosAK•2 yr. agoUptime 425 days!My best yet, but a few things started to go wrong yesterday: htop freezing with black screen when launched & ps would hang after showing process list.A reboot cleaned this up, but I went ahead and backed up my stuff and slackpkg'ed all my stuff to current.Will see how long this next run goes....
Should I use slackpkg or something like sbopkg? Should I use slackpkg or something like sbopkg?u/ignxcy•2 yr. agoShould I use slackpkg or something like sbopkg?Heyy, I'm a new slackware user. Currently  updating the system after installing it, so my question is, is it better to just use slackpkg or something like sbopkg or slapt?
Blender and render possibilities in slackware (new user) Blender and render possibilities in slackware (new user)u/Dry-Tie9450•2 yr. agoBlender and render possibilities in slackware (new user)I was searching a distro that “just works” and yesterday night I was surprised when installing slackware for 1st time all just works and it’s huge how simple it is.But I ‘m facing 1st step difficulties, to learn how update and if it’s possible to make rendering work in it for blender and use davinci resolve or play games. I will need this tools and other distros are not recognizing my gpu.Suggestions on for which path can I learn this or test/try to make it work?
Make Login Screen 1920x1080 Make Login Screen 1920x1080[deleted]•2 yr. agoMake Login Screen 1920x1080Hi everyone. I am testing out Slackware 15.0 on Oracle Virtualbox in Windows 11. I did a full install with UEFI and Grub.While I was able to change the resolution of the system (edit: display > changed resolution in XFCE) to 1920x1080p, the grub menu and login screen are smaller than that. Is there a way to make these also 1920x1080p?
No Boot(y) from hd for me?  No Boot(y) from hd for me?u/Saber_Trixie•2 yr. agoNo Boot(y) from hd for me?Hi, kind of newbie here. Tried to search for answers across the internet, but failed miserably. I have a problem with booting Slack 15.0 In simulation (Oracle Virtual Box) everything went fine when I installed it over 10 times, so I thought that I'm ready to set it up. I have 2hdd (E and F) and 1ssd (C). Windows 10 is at C disc, E disc holds data (mostly my private stuff) and for installing Slack I went with F disc [450GB of free space]. The installation process went mostly fine, but in progress of trying I've reinstalled it 4 times, and the results are the same: LILO can't install itself, Slackware cannot boot itself if I won't run it from USB Stick, and to my surprise the partition I made seems unbootable. Infdiskandgdiskcommand to mark the partition as active or boot just doesn't respond. In GUI "KDE Partition Manager" flags are unclickable. Yes I did everything as root, and still doesn't work. No, I don't have anyone, where I live now, who might know how to fix this. Is there any way to brutally flag that partition? I don't wanna search for USB Stick the rest of my life when I'll have to use PC. Please help
David Cantrell reminisces about his experience working for Slackware in the early 2000s David Cantrell reminisces about his experience working for Slackware in the early 2000su/drMoZes•2 yr. agoDavid Cantrell reminisces about his experience working for Slackware in the early 2000sIf you're interested in some of the Slackware history from the late 90's and early 2000's, you will enjoythis episode of the Slackware ARM vlog!David Cantrell worked in the Slackware core team between 1999-2001, created the Slackware logo, co-developed the web site, the Slackware Linux Essentials book, portedSlackware to the SPARC architecture, developed the first Slackware automatic update tool and introduced a number of other core packages into the distribution.In this discussion, David delves into his journey of discovering Linux and his experience working for Slackware. He offers valuable insights into the early days of the Linux ecosystem, a time when the platform was gradually gaining recognition and acceptance in the tech community. Through his perspective, we gain a deeper understanding of the challenges and opportunities that characterised this formative period in Linux's history
Why isn't there a Slackware current DVD iso? Why isn't there a Slackware current DVD iso?u/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoWhy isn't there a Slackware current DVD iso?Why doesn't the Slackware site have a DVD iso for current that I can download and install to a thumb drive to install just like we do with 15?Also, is it worth upgrading to current?I don't have any problems with my Slackware 15 and I just update from the patches directory the software I need like Firefox and important things
Fixing Slackware from 15.0 usb Fixing Slackware from 15.0 usbu/new_name_new_me•2 yr. agoFixing Slackware from 15.0 usbI tried upgrading to -current without reading the Readme. Oops, I fucked up. So I thought I'd reinsert my install USB, set it as a mirror, and use slackpkg to install its packages. That was a double mistake, and now I can't do anything with my system at all.How can I use my Slackware USB to replace my on-disk packages with its packages? I don't want to lose my data, I just want to go back from my broken -current to 15 using my USB. It feels like there's got to be an easy way to do this.
Issues starting sway/hyprland WM on slackware-current Issues starting sway/hyprland WM on slackware-currentu/inkubot•2 yr. agoIssues starting sway/hyprland WM on slackware-currentHi all,Sway/Hyprland don't start in slackware-current, i haven't change anything so i'm assuming did broke after an upgrade of some packages, probably a week ago? I'm not really sure when because i did stop using the PC for some days and when i did use it again my WM was broken. Seems a permission issue for my regular user, root user can start sway no issues.I have the following in the logs of Hyprland[libseat] [libseat/backend/seatd.c:66] Could not connect to socket /run/seatd.sock: Permission denied[libseat] [libseat/backend/logind.c:317] Could not activate session: Launch helper exited with unknown return code 127[backend/backend.c:104] Timeout waiting session to become active[backend/backend.c:406] Failed to start a DRM session[CRITICAL] m_sWLRBackend was NULL! This usually means wlroots could not find a GPU or enountered some issues.[CRITICAL] Critical error thrown: wlr_backend_autocreate() failed!I do start through "dbus-launch Hyprland", i did try with dbus-session-run but can't make it work... any idea what i'm missing?Thanks!
PV weighs in on a linuxquestions thread about backdoor in xz/lzma. Although vulnerable versions found in -current, key files are not affected. Code signature not found in liblzma and sshd not linked to libsystemd (no systemd in slackware) PV weighs in on a linuxquestions thread about backdoor in xz/lzma. Although vulnerable versions found in -current, key files are not affected. Code signature not found in liblzma and sshd not linked to libsystemd (no systemd in slackware)u/ddmayne•2 yr. agoPV weighs in on a linuxquestions thread about backdoor in xz/lzma. Although vulnerable versions found in -current, key files are not affected. Code signature not found in liblzma and sshd not linked to libsystemd (no systemd in slackware)https://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/slackware-14/backdoor-in-upstream-xz-liblzma-4175735461/
PXE boot in virtual env PXE boot in virtual envu/pingu_maharaj•2 yr. agoPXE boot in virtual envHi,I am trying pxe boot in a virtual environment using Oracle Virtualbox.The networking is in bridged mode with eth0 and the distro I am trying to boot is slackware64 15.0.However after getting a IP from the dhcp server , I get a "invalid or corrupt kernel image" error.I get the message.txt displayed and memtest works too. The error is just for the kernel.Is there any workaround to this ?Thanks.
Issue with updating gnupg2 during system upgrade from 15.0 to current causing upgrade failures Issue with updating gnupg2 during system upgrade from 15.0 to current causing upgrade failuresu/MD90__•2 yr. agoIssue with updating gnupg2 during system upgrade from 15.0 to current causing upgrade failures
Life when Slackware Life when Slackwareu/HackedcliEntUser•2 yr. agoLife when SlackwareTLDR: VirusTotal and Windows defender detect a virus within an alienbob slackware download.I downloaded this from theslackware.nlwebsite, but somehow my browser detected this. Should i be worreid or something?Edit: Well that's weird.
Slackware 15.0 breaks while updating to current Slackware 15.0 breaks while updating to currentu/HackedcliEntUser•2 yr. agoSlackware 15.0 breaks while updating to currentI installed Slackware 15.0 in a vm. I tried updating it to current. I did the usual commands:slackpkg update,slackpkg install-new,slackpkg upgrade-all,slackpkg clean-system. But it stops working properly after i doslackpkg install-new. When I tryslackpkg upgrade-all, it the main error iswget: /lib64/libc.so.6: version 'GLIBC_2.34' not found (required by /lib64/libcrypto.so.1.1)Error - Package not installed! Not found error!Any one got an idea of what's wrong?
LTE modem in USB stick form factor, for use with Slackware LTE modem in USB stick form factor, for use with Slackwareu/MotherMychaela•2 yr. agoLTE modem in USB stick form factor, for use with SlackwareHello fellow slackers,Would anyone happen to have some recommendation for an LTE modem in USB "stick" form factor, one that would work well with Slackware on the computer side and T-Mobile on the wireless network side? I previously had great experiences with Huawei E303, but that modem is 3.5G (HSPA) only, and that network has been shut down in my area - hence I need to find some newer USB "stick" modem that does LTE. The relevance to Slackware is that I am the kind of gal who refuses to use any kind of GUI desktop environment, hencenoNetworkManager or ModemManager or any of those doodads for me: when I was happily using the E303 (when we still had 3G), I would manually run pppd from the command line, with a hand-crafted config file for the "peer" being dialed, and I want to keep the same paradigm. Hence my question is: which model of LTE-capable, T-Mobile-compatible USB "stick" cellular data modem I should buy that would be most friendly to purely manual pppd operation without NetworkManager, without ModemManager, without any of those modernities?Any help would be greatly appreciated!
Harfbuzz compile failure! Harfbuzz compile failure!u/unixbhaskar•2 yr. agoHarfbuzz compile failure!Root cause of the problem arose , when ffmpeg failed to use "drawtext" feature.The exact problem :https://www.reddit.com/r/ffmpeg/comments/15e767d/compiled_with_enablelibfreetype_but_getting_no/Please check other comments for the process.Any clue?In file included from /usr/include/glib-2.0/glib/gthread.h:32,from /usr/include/glib-2.0/glib/gasyncqueue.h:32,from /usr/include/glib-2.0/glib.h:32,fromhb-gobject-structs.cc:30:hb-gobject-structs.cc: In function 'GType hb_gobject_buffer_get_type()':/usr/include/glib-2.0/glib/gatomic.h:113:19: error: argument 2 of '__atomic_load' must not be a pointer to a 'volatile' type113 | __atomic_load (gapg_temp_atomic, &gapg_temp_newval, __ATOMIC_SEQ_CST); \| ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/usr/include/glib-2.0/glib/gthread.h:260:7: note: in expansion of macro 'g_atomic_pointer_get'260 | (!g_atomic_pointer_get (location) && \| ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hb-gobject-structs.cc:45:8: note: in expansion of macro 'g_once_init_enter'45 | if (g_once_init_enter (&type)) { \| ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hb-gobject-structs.cc:55:9: note: in expansion of macro '_HB_DEFINE_BOXED_TYPE'55 | _HB_DEFINE_BOXED_TYPE (hb_##name, hb_gobject_##name, hb_##name##_reference, hb_##name##_destroy);| ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hb-gobject-structs.cc:57:1: note: in expansion of macro 'HB_DEFINE_BOXED_TYPE'57 | HB_DEFINE_BOXED_TYPE (buffer)| ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hb-gobject-structs.cc: In function 'GType hb_gobject_blob_get_type()':/usr/include/glib-2.0/glib/gatomic.h:113:19: error: argument 2 of '__atomic_load' must not be a pointer to a 'volatile' type113 | __atomic_load (gapg_temp_atomic, &gapg_temp_newval, __ATOMIC_SEQ_CST); \| ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/usr/include/glib-2.0/glib/gthread.h:260:7: note: in expansion of macro 'g_atomic_pointer_get'260 | (!g_atomic_pointer_get (location) && \| ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hb-gobject-structs.cc:45:8: note: in expansion of macro 'g_once_init_enter'45 | if (g_once_init_enter (&type)) { \| ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hb-gobject-structs.cc:55:9: note: in expansion of macro '_HB_DEFINE_BOXED_TYPE'55 | _HB_DEFINE_BOXED_TYPE (hb_##name, hb_gobject_##name, hb_##name##_reference, hb_##name##_destroy);| ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hb-gobject-structs.cc:58:1: note: in expansion of macro 'HB_DEFINE_BOXED_TYPE'58 | HB_DEFINE_BOXED_TYPE (blob)| ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hb-gobject-structs.cc: In function 'GType hb_gobject_face_get_type()':/usr/include/glib-2.0/glib/gatomic.h:113:19: error: argument 2 of '__atomic_load' must not be a pointer to a 'volatile' type113 | __atomic_load (gapg_temp_atomic, &gapg_temp_newval, __ATOMIC_SEQ_CST); \| ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/usr/include/glib-2.0/glib/gthread.h:260:7: note: in expansion of macro 'g_atomic_pointer_get'260 | (!g_atomic_pointer_get (location) && \| ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hb-gobject-structs.cc:45:8: note: in expansion of macro 'g_once_init_enter'45 | if (g_once_init_enter (&type)) { \| ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hb-gobject-structs.cc:55:9: note: in expansion of macro '_HB_DEFINE_BOXED_TYPE'55 | _HB_DEFINE_BOXED_TYPE (hb_##name, hb_gobject_##name, hb_##name##_reference, hb_##name##_destroy);| ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hb-gobject-structs.cc: In function 'GType hb_gobject_font_get_type()':/usr/include/glib-2.0/glib/gatomic.h:113:19: error: argument 2 of '__atomic_load' must not be a pointer to a 'volatile' type113 | __atomic_load (gapg_temp_atomic, &gapg_temp_newval, __ATOMIC_SEQ_CST); \| ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/usr/include/glib-2.0/glib/gthread.h:260:7: note: in expansion of macro 'g_atomic_pointer_get'260 | (!g_atomic_pointer_get (location) && \| ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hb-gobject-structs.cc:45:8: note: in expansion of macro 'g_once_init_enter'45 | if (g_once_init_enter (&type)) { \| ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hb-gobject-structs.cc:55:9: note: in expansion of macro '_HB_DEFINE_BOXED_TYPE'55 | _HB_DEFINE_BOXED_TYPE (hb_##name, hb_gobject_##name, hb_##name##_reference, hb_##name##_destroy);| ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hb-gobject-structs.cc:60:1: note: in expansion of macro 'HB_DEFINE_BOXED_TYPE'60 | HB_DEFINE_BOXED_TYPE (font)| ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hb-gobject-structs.cc: In function 'GType hb_gobject_font_funcs_get_type()':/usr/include/glib-2.0/glib/gatomic.h:113:19: error: argument 2 of '__atomic_load' must not be a pointer to a 'volatile' type113 | __atomic_load (gapg_temp_atomic, &gapg_temp_newval, __ATOMIC_SEQ_CST); \| ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/usr/include/glib-2.0/glib/gthread.h:260:7: note: in expansion of macro 'g_atomic_pointer_get'260 | (!g_atomic_pointer_get (location) && \| ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hb-gobject-structs.cc:45:8: note: in expansion of macro 'g_once_init_enter'45 | if (g_once_init_enter (&type)) { \| ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hb-gobject-structs.cc:55:9: note: in expansion of macro '_HB_DEFINE_BOXED_TYPE'55 | _HB_DEFINE_BOXED_TYPE (hb_##name, hb_gobject_##name, hb_##name##_reference, hb_##name##_destroy);| ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hb-gobject-structs.cc:61:1: note: in expansion of macro 'HB_DEFINE_BOXED_TYPE'61 | HB_DEFINE_BOXED_TYPE (font_funcs)| ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hb-gobject-structs.cc: In function 'GType hb_gobject_unicode_funcs_get_type()':/usr/include/glib-2.0/glib/gatomic.h:113:19: error: argument 2 of '__atomic_load' must not be a pointer to a 'volatile' type113 | __atomic_load (gapg_temp_atomic, &gapg_temp_newval, __ATOMIC_SEQ_CST); \| ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/usr/include/glib-2.0/glib/gthread.h:260:7: note: in expansion of macro 'g_atomic_pointer_get'260 | (!g_atomic_pointer_get (location) && \| ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hb-gobject-structs.cc:45:8: note: in expansion of macro 'g_once_init_enter'45 | if (g_once_init_enter (&type)) { \| ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hb-gobject-structs.cc:55:9: note: in expansion of macro '_HB_DEFINE_BOXED_TYPE'55 | _HB_DEFINE_BOXED_TYPE (hb_##name, hb_gobject_##name, hb_##name##_reference, hb_##name##_destroy);| ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hb-gobject-structs.cc:62:1: note: in expansion of macro 'HB_DEFINE_BOXED_TYPE'62 | HB_DEFINE_BOXED_TYPE (unicode_funcs)| ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~make[4]: *** [Makefile:1119: libharfbuzz_la-hb-gobject-structs.lo] Error 1make[4]: Leaving directory '/tmp/SBo/harfbuzz-0.9.19/src'make[3]: *** [Makefile:1318: all-recursive] Error 1make[3]: Leaving directory '/tmp/SBo/harfbuzz-0.9.19/src'make[2]: *** [Makefile:697: all] Error 2make[2]: Leaving directory '/tmp/SBo/harfbuzz-0.9.19/src'make[1]: *** [Makefile:372: all-recursive] Error 1make[1]: Leaving directory '/tmp/SBo/harfbuzz-0.9.19'make: *** [Makefile:303: all] Error 2root@Slackware:/data/slackware_soft/harfbuzz#root@Slackware:/data/slackware_soft/harfbuzz# lsREADME harfbuzz-0.9.19.tar.bz2 harfbuzz.SlackBuild*harfbuzz.infoslack-desc
How do you do slackpkg without having it update kernel? How do you do slackpkg without having it update kernel?u/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoHow do you do slackpkg without having it update kernel?I have Slackware 15 and I manually update the patches from the patches directory.Someone mentioned slackpkg that I could use to automate it, however I have the 6.6.17 kernel and don't want it regressing my kernel to 5.15.xxx.Do I just blacklist the kernel update part?
Anyone still running Xserver as suid root ? Anyone still running Xserver as suid root ?u/metux-its•2 yr. agoAnyone still running Xserver as suid root ?Hello folks,anybody here still running the Xserver as suid root ?I'm currently investigating whether we could get rid of few kLOC for coping with that. Solaris still needs it today, but if its the only platform, we might move to an OS specific solution.
Anyone using Xnest ? Anyone using Xnest ?u/metux-its•2 yr. agoAnyone using Xnest ?Hello folks,since i've recently took maintainership for Xnest, I'd like to know whether anybody here using it and having problems I'm not yet aware of.Thx.
Latest dhcp4.4.3 update. Transport endpoint errors... Latest dhcp4.4.3 update. Transport endpoint errors...u/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoLatest dhcp4.4.3 update. Transport endpoint errors...I recently had patched with the dhcp4.4.3 patch in the Slackware 15 patches directory and got errors about dchp6 refusing connection and many "transport endpoint" errors.These would show up in my syslog throughout the day at different intervals.I recently had to reinstall to increase my / directory size and so now I'm on the version before 4.4.3 so I no longer get any errors.When I did have the errors though "ifconfig" still showed an inet 6 and inet 4 address and internet worked normally.Does anyone know what these "transport endpoint" errors are?I read that it had something to do with filesystem errors?Anyways, I've been holding off upgrading to 4.4.3 for the time being.
What if I have 2 wifi cards? How do I use one vs other? What if I have 2 wifi cards? How do I use one vs other?u/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoWhat if I have 2 wifi cards? How do I use one vs other?I have a pcie wifi card in my new desktop that seems a little slow compared to my ac1200 dual antenna usb dongle that I had in another computer.If I hook up the usb dongle will it take precedence over the internal wifi card or do I have to physically  remove the card to have Slackware use the usb wifi dongle?Is there a way to switch between them without removing them?
Kernel update Kernel update[deleted]•2 yr. agoKernel updateThe current kernel update broke my Nvidia driver, anyone else ?
Slackware next releases question Slackware next releases questionu/sdns575•2 yr. agoSlackware next releases questionHi,I like very much Slackware, it was my first distro and I used it for production purpose many times with success but actually it is seen as an old thing and my boss refuse to use it.I would like to know if in the next releases something like systemd and MAC control will be included in the main release.In a first time I disliked systemd but using it at work I started to appreciate it. Now it is actually adopted by most main distro. Actually I'm using a software that need systemd and systemd timers but I would like use it on slackware but due to spec I can't for the systemd missing part. So there is a chance that systemd will be included in Slackware?My second question is about MAC control. Why actually there is not a MAC control system available on Slackware? Why Mr Volkerding does not want include it? I used SELinux and apparmor in production and they are very good. AppArmor is the simpler from my point of view and integrate it on Slackware will give it a boost. This will be included on Slackware?Third question: why microcode ctl is not shipped by default with Slackware (I should install it via SBo)? Actually also Debian ships microcode ctl in the installation process for bugged CPU.Thank you in advance.
Case to be made for "startx" command instead of booting to graphical? Case to be made for "startx" command instead of booting to graphical?u/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoCase to be made for "startx" command instead of booting to graphical?I usually leave my computer on so I rarely see the login screen.  Anyways, Ive always just did the default "startx" which is how Slackware comes by default.Is there a case to be made for leaving things this way or should I be booting to a grahical login screen?Thanks
Strange thing happened today after compiling 6.6.15 kernel ... Strange thing happened today after compiling 6.6.15 kernel ...u/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoStrange thing happened today after compiling 6.6.15 kernel ...Well I am currently using the 6.6.12 kernel on Slackware 15 as the default 5.15.19 wouldn't startx with my new Dell Vostro desktop with an i5 12400 cpu.Anways, I had been using the 6.6.12 kernel compiled with the ".config" from the current kernel that is the "huge" kernel.  I downloaded the source fromkernel.organd compiled with that config and did the make_modules install and everything.Well I decided to do the same with the 6.6.15 kernel and afterwards X wouldn't start anymore as a regular user and I got errors about my / filesystem being full?  No space available?  I had about 7 gigs available right before that and didn't install any programs.  So i'm wondering what may have happened.X would start however as root, although I realize you're not supposed to, but it did work.So why wouldn't it work as my normal user account? ... As normal user it also said something about ... no Xauthority found and no .serverauth.. found or something.After I compiled the 6.6.15 kernel I copied over the kernel to /boot , updated grub, etc.  I had the modules under /lib/modules/6.6.15 and did the "mkinitrd -c -k6.6.15 -o initrd-6.6.15.gz" command etc.Anyways, luckily I had /home on a separate partition and just reinstalled Slackware and then recompiled the 6.6.12 kernel and now I'm all back and everything is good.I'm wondering what I did wrong though that screwed up my system.  I'm kind of afraid to upgrade to the 6.6.15 kernel now.I think the biggest thing was that df -h was reporting my / directory as being full when I hadn't installed anything.  How could it be full?  Also, programs that needed to write would fail with "no space available" etc, so maybe it was full.But why would my filesystem be full if I don't install any programs to the / directory?  My logs in /var/log were only a few megabytes so it couldn't have been the logs. I have a 25 gig partition for / and never install any programs and have about 7.5 gigs free on the / partition.The only thing I DID do a week ago was use "slackpkg" for the first time and upgraded a lot of the stuff.  Maybe that did something? ....
Monitor sleeps and won't wake up at times Monitor sleeps and won't wake up at timesu/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoMonitor sleeps and won't wake up at timesIt happens kind of randomly as far as I can tell.  For example, it can sleep all night (I have KDE shut it off after 5 minutes of no use) and I shake the mouse and it wakes up.  But two times now, I've come home and shook the mouse, pressed the power button on and off to no avail.  I leave my computer on.What did work, was I disconnected the power cord and reconnected it tonight and it came on.  I'm wondering if it's my new computer or linux or Slackware? My new computer is a Dell desktop with an i5 12400 cpu, 16 gig ram, etc.It never happened on my old computer that also ran Slackware 15. My old computer was an asus p8p67 mobo, i5 2500k cpu, 8 gigs ram.I'm running the 6.6 kernel though on the Dell as X wouldn't start with the default 5.15.19 kernel. I had to upgrade as the older kernel didn't support the onboard video on my 15 12400 cpu I guess.  The 6.6 kernel works. and on my other computer I was running the 6.3.10 kernel.  I'm not sure if it's the kernel.  I don't think it would be a Slackware problem itself....
So many folks think Slackware is done for when Pat decides to leave, or that Slackware is no longer relevant to anyone except hobbyists. I think they just are going by numbers and not the users themselves. Ourselves? So many folks think Slackware is done for when Pat decides to leave, or that Slackware is no longer relevant to anyone except hobbyists. I think they just are going by numbers and not the users themselves. Ourselves?u/Ezmiller_2•2 yr. agoSo many folks think Slackware is done for when Pat decides to leave, or that Slackware is no longer relevant to anyone except hobbyists. I think they just are going by numbers and not the users themselves. Ourselves?https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/1ae9us2/how_many_more_years_do_you_think_slackware_will/
My screen on my desktop slept today and wouldn't wake up... My screen on my desktop slept today and wouldn't wake up...u/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoMy screen on my desktop slept today and wouldn't wake up...I had to press the power button a few times on the back to finally wake it up.  I thought it had finally died after 15 years of use.It's a Samsung 27 inch led. Anyways, it finally came on , but I've always just shook the mouse to awaken it.I'm running Slackware 15 with the 6.6.13 kernel.Is this something to do with the kernel you think or kde?It hasn't done it since, but im wondering if itll happen again after a longer sleep. ...
thunderbolt NVMe? thunderbolt NVMe?[deleted]•2 yr. agothunderbolt NVMe?slack64 v15if it's plugged in at boot it mounts as a /dev/nvmeX (but breaks the boot process probably due to me not tailoring grub right yet).  If I hot plug it after boot it's merely recognized in dmesg but doesnt populate /dev/nvme*.  tried with stock kernel, updated kernel, and self compiled 6.6.  I didn't have much luck seeing it in whatever nvme tools i could manage to find poking around the treethis little air-cooled box has two early thunderbolt3 portsit hot plugs fine as a /dev/sdX (but limited to usb3.x speeds) if i use a typeA to a typeC cable coming off the usb3.2port on a thunderbolt4 hub i have hanging off of it.  the thunderbolt 3/4->thunderbolt 2->firewire->audiointerface works great.i tried flipping the cable ;-)
Is it ok to leave my desktop on 24/7? Is it ok to leave my desktop on 24/7?u/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoIs it ok to leave my desktop on 24/7?I have Slackware 15 running and run iptables and ip6tables.I just leave my computer (desktop ) on 24/7 and never shut it really.Is that OK?It's been up over a year now.
new slackware 15 install; kernel to 6.6x; anything I missed? new slackware 15 install; kernel to 6.6x; anything I missed?[deleted]•2 yr. agonew slackware 15 install; kernel to 6.6x; anything I missed?I think this is my first install on a pure UEFI machine and I sadly had to abandon lilo/elilo.  Other than that, I managed to finally get the hang of grub and everything boots; so I compiled a fresh 6.6.14 lazily using "make oldconfig" (while holding down the enter key), and it runs.  I seem to recall in the past I usually had to install or compile a zillion libraries to really do it right-- but that was the kernel 2.x decades.Did I miss anything?  Is 6.6.x OK to just drop right in from a blank slack15.0 after a slackpkg update/upgrade?30 years sure flies
Slackware 15, hibernate boots to Windows Recovery Slackware 15, hibernate boots to Windows Recoveryu/hymie0•2 yr. agoSlackware 15, hibernate boots to Windows RecoverySo I think this is my last issue :)I have an HP laptop that I took from my wife when she bought a new laptop. I completely removed the old Windows partition and installed Slackware 15Number  Start (sector)    End (sector)  Size       Code  Name    1            2048         1050623   512.0 MiB   EF00  EFI system partition    2         1050624         5244927   2.0 GiB     8300  Linux filesystem    3         5244928       139462655   64.0 GiB    8200  Linux swap    4       139462656      1953525134   865.0 GiB   8E00  Linux LVMI have elogind set up for suspend (sleep), and that is working fine.When I try to use elogind to hibernate, the machine hibernates successfully, but the next time I boot it, it insists on booting to Windows Recovery mode.What I have to do isattach my Slackware boot USB driveboot the laptopinterrupt the boot processF9 lets me select the boot deviceselect "local hard drive" (there's a long code that I didn't write down) / EFI / Slackware / elilo.efithe machine boots and resumes successfully from where I hibernatedrun `sudo /sbin/eliloconfig` to recreate the EFI partition that Windows Recovery destroyed.This is literally the entirety of my EFI partition:laptop-pts/2:/boot/efi% find . . ./EFI ./EFI/Slackware ./EFI/Slackware/elilo.conf ./EFI/Slackware/elilo.efi ./EFI/Slackware/vmlinuz ./EFI/Slackware/initrd.gzso I guess there is something in the BIOS that is deciding to try to install Windows?  "Secure Boot" is turned off, and when it comes to BIOS, that's about all I know. :(It's hard to access my BIOS and view/save the info in a way that's easy to post, so I guess I might be out of luck, but if anybody has suggestions, I could use them.
[Q] Restart interrupted updates? [Q] Restart interrupted updates?u/bsdooby•2 yr. ago[Q] Restart interrupted updates?If, during aslackpkg upgrade-all, an interruption occurs while a specific (new) package is downloading, how can this be recovered? I often observe that a second upgrade request does not list the (old) package again as having a new one…
Is Wayland needed if I'm using X and Kde? Is Wayland needed if I'm using X and Kde?u/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoIs Wayland needed if I'm using X and Kde?As far as I know I'm not using Wayland, but rather Xorg.  I use KDE as my desktop on Slackware 15 and am wondering if I need to update Wayland from the patches directory.Am I using Wayland if I'm using KDE and Xorg?thanks
I don't use ssh. Should I turn it off for security reasons? I don't use ssh. Should I turn it off for security reasons?u/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoI don't use ssh. Should I turn it off for security reasons?I don't ever use ssh. Should I turn it off?How do I do that?Rc file?Anything else I should turn off that I don't use?
Does anyone NOT upgrade their Slackware between releases? Does anyone NOT upgrade their Slackware between releases?u/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoDoes anyone NOT upgrade their Slackware between releases?I used to never upgrade any of my Slackware installs since I started back at 7.0 or so.  I would just install it and use it. Never had any problems.Does anyone more or less just leave their systems be after doing the install?The only thing I really think of updating is Firefox browser.  Other than that I don't worry about GNU utils, gcc or anything and I'm a C and assembly programmer as a hobby.I never needed to upgrade gcc or vim or even ld or anything.I just can't see the point in bothering to upgrade every time a patch is released in the patches directory unless its maybe firefox like I said.Even the kernel.  I'm now on 6.6.12 because 5.15.19 from the vanilla install wouldn't work with my new i5 12400 cpu video.  But I can't see in running out to update it just cause its at 6.6.13 for example?
Should I be updating things from the Slackware 15 "patches" directory? Should I be updating things from the Slackware 15 "patches" directory?u/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoShould I be updating things from the Slackware 15 "patches" directory?I see things like "networking scripts" "dhcp" etc.  About the only thing I've kept up to date on are the Firefox updates.I also see the kernel-firmware updates which looks cool.  Are these things safe to update?Also there are a lot of library update patches like "libx11" stuff which may be important for X fixes etc?I'm also wondering if I patch say "X11 server" and don't download ALL the xserver patches would I break something?  Not that I have any reason NOT to install them all ... just wondering.I generally just run "update-pkg *.txz" and everything seems to update.Do you HAVE to constantly update all the stuff in the patches directory?I think the network, firmware and at least browser stuff may be important to try and keep up to date on.
How to change default kernel for grub in Slackware How to change default kernel for grub in Slackwareu/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoHow to change default kernel for grub in SlackwareI usually cut and paste inside the "grub.cfg" and move my latest kernel to the top of it, but it's kind of a pain.  Is there a way to make grub use your latest kernel as the default?thanks
Best iso virtualization software on slackware rn? Best iso virtualization software on slackware rn?u/mimedm•2 yr. agoBest iso virtualization software on slackware rn?I'm trying to get virtual box to work on my Slackware current and also read about Qemu. Both don't seem to have updated packages anymore and don't seem to work out of the box.Since I'm fairly out of touch with the latest Linux trends I wondered what's the easiest way to install a guest OS for testing purposes nowadays on Slackware?
Dmesg always says "No kernel modules found" for whatever kernel I run on all my computers.. Dmesg always says "No kernel modules found" for whatever kernel I run on all my computers..u/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoDmesg always says "No kernel modules found" for whatever kernel I run on all my computers..The computers all start and run fine and I have the modules for the kernel I am loading under /lib/modules however I always see "No kernel modules found for x.x.x kernel..." every time I boot.However if I run dmesg | less I don't see the message.It always flashes by very quickly at the start of every boot with all kernels on all 3 of my computers.Like I said though, all my kernels have the required modules under their directory under /lib/modules and all my computers run fine and all modules I need are shown when I run "lsmod"..
Fresh Slackware 15 install on Dell Vostro desktop. Installed fine, but X won't start Fresh Slackware 15 install on Dell Vostro desktop. Installed fine, but X won't startu/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoFresh Slackware 15 install on Dell Vostro desktop. Installed fine, but X won't startDell Vostro desktop with i5 12400,  16gb ram, all intel basically.Login in to user and I type startx and get xorg errors about "vesa refuse to run in uefi mode" or something similar.This computer says can't run in legacy mode in Bios.I've turned on and off tpm and secure boot to no avail.
Dailydriving in 2024 Dailydriving in 2024u/ignxcy•2 yr. agoDailydriving in 2024Hello I find slackware very interesting, is it still worth daily driving in 2024? What do you think?
Does Slackware current have an install DVD iso like Slackware 15? Does Slackware current have an install DVD iso like Slackware 15?u/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoDoes Slackware current have an install DVD iso like Slackware 15?I was thinking of giving Slackware current a try but I'm not sure that it has an install DVD that I can use to write to a usb stick to install like you do with Slackware 15?Are there official Slackware current install isos?I know alienbob has one.Is that good?Just do a dd to a usb stick like I did with Slackware 15?
Compiling 6.6.11 taking hour and a half so far... Compiling 6.6.11 taking hour and a half so far...u/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoCompiling 6.6.11 taking hour and a half so far...I download linux 6.6.11 source from kernel.org and am using the Slackware. Config from current 6.6.11 kernel from Slackware current directory under /kernel.So far it's taken an hour and a half to compile the kernel!This is the "huge" version I think.Needless to say I only use it as a starting point and will be going through menuconfig and removing all the stuff I don't need.My last kernel compile only took 30 minutes when I did a 5.x.x kernel.
Can I just download the bzimage etc for the latest Slackware current kernel or should I compile my own? Can I just download the bzimage etc for the latest Slackware current kernel or should I compile my own?u/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoCan I just download the bzimage etc for the latest Slackware current kernel or should I compile my own?Can you just download the precompiled kernel bzimage, headers etc of the 6.6 kernel and place them in the proper directories etc?I realize I'll have to run mkinitrd, update grub etc.Or maybe I can just compile from scratch?Ive compiled kernels before.Ill keep the 5.15.19 also just in case.
Copy bookmarks from Windows 7 firefox to my firefox on Slackware? Copy bookmarks from Windows 7 firefox to my firefox on Slackware?u/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoCopy bookmarks from Windows 7 firefox to my firefox on Slackware?Can I copy my bookmarks from Windows 7 firefox to my firefox under Slackware 15?What file would I copy over?Thanks
Can't update elilo.conf / can't mount /boot/efi Can't update elilo.conf / can't mount /boot/efiu/shadyshak•2 yr. agoCan't update elilo.conf / can't mount /boot/efiHi folks, have a strange problem and looking for some pointers.I installed slack 15.0 on a LXD/Qemu VM and after the installed I did an upgrade-all. But when I came to edit the elilo conf file I could not find it.I assume that it would be located in /boot/efi - but I am unable to mount it because it looks like vfat is not available in the kernel or something's messed up along the lines.Any help appreciated. Thanks.root@slacky:~#  mount -t vfat /dev/sda1 /boot/efi mount: /boot/efi: unknown filesystem type 'vfat'. root@slacky:~#   root@slacky:~#  blkid /dev/sda1 /dev/sda1: UUID="C545-DF78" BLOCK_SIZE="512" TYPE="vfat" PARTUUID="60d028da-c3d3-3245-9909-c08c3d67578f"  root@slacky:~# lsmod | grep vfat root@slacky:~#  root@slacky:~# sudo modprobe vfat modprobe: FATAL: Module vfat not found in directory /lib/modules/5.15.19 root@slacky:~#  root@slacky:~# uname -a Linux slacky.example.org 5.15.19 #1 SMP PREEMPT Wed Feb 2 01:50:51 CST 2022 x86_64 AMD Ryzen 9 7940HS w/ Radeon 780M Graphics AuthenticAMD GNU/Linux
IPv6 on new Slackware 15 IPv6 on new Slackware 15u/hymie0•2 yr. agoIPv6 on new Slackware 15Problem solved (see bottom)====================(I keep hoping that each would be my last post, but not yet)So my old Slackware 14.2 laptop had IPv6 running.  I'm sure I set it up once 5 years ago and have little recollection of what I did.  But my old laptop is getting an IPv6 address3: wlan0: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1438 qdisc mq state UP group default qlen 1000     link/ether 8c:c8:4b:67:9e:55 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff     inet 192.168.42.189/24 brd 192.168.42.255 scope global wlan0        valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever     inet6 2001:ffff:e072:42:8ec8:4bff:fe67:9e55/64 scope global mngtmpaddr dynamic        valid_lft 86359sec preferred_lft 14359sec     inet6 fe80::8ec8:4bff:fe67:9e55/64 scope link        valid_lft forever preferred_lft foreverand my new Slackware 15 box is only getting a link-local address3: wlan0: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc noqueue state UP group default qlen 1000     link/ether 4c:eb:bd:68:d5:3b brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff     inet 192.168.42.162/24 brd 192.168.42.255 scope global dynamic noprefixroute wlan0        valid_lft 86376sec preferred_lft 75576sec     inet6 fe80::4eeb:bdff:fe68:d53b/64 scope link        valid_lft forever preferred_lft foreverI have a RADVD server that, as far as I know, is pushing out addresses to all of my other hostsinterface eth0 {         AdvSendAdvert on;         # IgnoreIfMissing on;         MinRtrAdvInterval 30;         MaxRtrAdvInterval 180;         AdvDefaultPreference low;         AdvHomeAgentFlag off;         prefix 2001:ffff:e072:42::/64         {                 AdvOnLink on;                 AdvAutonomous on;                 AdvRouterAddr off;         };         route ::/0 {         }; };and I see that the new laptop is receiving# # radvd configuration generated by radvdump 2.17 # based on Router Advertisement from fe80::4687:fcff:fed2:3d66 # received by interface wlan0 #  interface wlan0 {         AdvSendAdvert on;         # Note: {Min,Max}RtrAdvInterval cannot be obtained with radvdump         AdvManagedFlag off;         AdvOtherConfigFlag off;         AdvReachableTime 0;         AdvRetransTimer 0;         AdvCurHopLimit 64;         AdvDefaultLifetime 540;         AdvHomeAgentFlag off;         AdvDefaultPreference low;         AdvSourceLLAddress on;          prefix 2001:ffff:e072:42::/64         {                 AdvValidLifetime 86400;                 AdvPreferredLifetime 14400;                 AdvOnLink on;                 AdvAutonomous on;                 AdvRouterAddr off;         }; # End of prefix definition           route ::/0         {                 AdvRoutePreference medium;                 AdvRouteLifetime 540;         }; # End of route definition  }; # End of interface definitionbut this host isn't picking up an addressI have/etc/gai.confset up .  I think my kernel config is correct:laptop-pts/0:~% cat /proc/sys/net/ipv6/conf/wlan0/disable_ipv6 0 laptop-pts/0:~% cat /proc/sys/net/ipv6/conf/all/disable_ipv6 0 laptop-pts/0:~% cat /proc/sys/net/ipv6/conf/wlan0/accept_ra 1 laptop-pts/0:~% cat /proc/sys/net/ipv6/conf/wlan0/accept_ra_defrtr 1 laptop-pts/0:~% cat /proc/sys/net/ipv6/conf/wlan0/accept_ra_from_local 0 laptop-pts/0:~% cat /proc/sys/net/ipv6/conf/wlan0/accept_ra_min_hop_limit 1 laptop-pts/0:~% cat /proc/sys/net/ipv6/conf/wlan0/accept_ra_mtu 1 laptop-pts/0:~% cat /proc/sys/net/ipv6/conf/wlan0/accept_ra_pinfo 1I'm guessing there's a step that I missed, but I can't find it. :(Thanks.====================I found the problem./etc/rc.d/rc.inet1.confneeds these two extra entriesUSE_SLAAC[4]="yes" USE_DHCP6[4]="yes"which did not exist when I set up my older Slackware 14 boxes.  Once I added these two options, IPv6 started working.I'm not sure exactly who to thank for the "push" that made me find this, but thank you all for the help.
Is there a way to optimize compiling? Is there a way to optimize compiling?u/Mysterious_Thing•2 yr. agoIs there a way to optimize compiling?Is there a way to optimize compile time when compiling packages? I mostly compile through sbopkg.
Should I upgrade my kernel? I'm using the 5.15.19 and it works fine Should I upgrade my kernel? I'm using the 5.15.19 and it works fineu/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoShould I upgrade my kernel? I'm using the 5.15.19 and it works fineAre you supposed to upgrade your kernel constantly?I can configure and compile my own. Right now I think the kernel is up to 6.7 or so.Is it unsafe using 5.15.19?Can you patch the kernel with the patches in the patches directory ?Just use upgradepkg etc?Thanks
I need help with setting up wifi, wlan0 doesn't show up I need help with setting up wifi, wlan0 doesn't show upu/FoamyAdampower_•2 yr. agoI need help with setting up wifi, wlan0 doesn't show upI'm using a 14e4:4464 adapter by Broadcom on my iMac 2019. Right now I'm temporarily using a external USB wifi adapter.
Google Chrome / Chromium won't download -- dbus error? Google Chrome / Chromium won't download -- dbus error?u/hymie0•2 yr. agoGoogle Chrome / Chromium won't download -- dbus error?So I finally got around to updating my laptop to Slackware 15.0 .I installed chromium-120.0.6099.129-x86_64-1alien ... and the browser works, but I can't download anything.  The Download popup opens, and I can select a directory / file , but nothing happens.  My "downloads manager" screen does not have my attempt even listed.I checked that my permissions are correct -- I can create and delete files just fine.  And it worked fine on my old Slackware 14.2 laptop for years.I don't know if it's related, but I'm also getting dbus errors.When I first click on a file to download, I get these messages along with the "Save as" popup:[5911:5931:1229/091242.060509:ERROR:bus.cc(407)] Failed to connect to the bus: Could not parse server address: Unknown address type (examples of valid types are "tcp" and on UNIX "unix") [5911:5931:1229/091242.060550:ERROR:bus.cc(407)] Failed to connect to the bus: Could not parse server address: Unknown address type (examples of valid types are "tcp" and on UNIX "unix") Error creating proxy: Unknown or unsupported transport “disabled” for address “disabled:” (g-io-error-quark, 13) Error creating proxy: Unknown or unsupported transport “disabled” for address “disabled:” (g-io-error-quark, 13)Then I hit the "Save" button and I get these messages:(process:5911): Gtk-WARNING **: 09:14:37.609: Attempting to add 'file:///home/hymie/Downloads/gnupg-2.4.3.tar.bz2.sig' to the list of recently used resources, but no name of the application that is registering it was defined (process:5911): dconf-WARNING **: 09:14:37.860: failed to commit changes to dconf: Unknown or unsupported transport “disabled” for address “disabled:” (process:5911): dconf-WARNING **: 09:14:37.860: failed to commit changes to dconf: Unknown or unsupported transport “disabled” for address “disabled:”Process 5911 is indeed5911 pts/0 Sl 0:35 /usr/lib64/chromium/chromiumI don't know what 5931 is, but 1229/091242 is the local date and time stamp.I don't know what I did wrong, but if somebody can point me the way, I'd appreciate it.
Weird thing happens when I install Slackware on different disk on same system. Weird thing happens when I install Slackware on different disk on same system.u/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoWeird thing happens when I install Slackware on different disk on same system.Ok. So I have a laptop that was successfully setup with Slackware 15 on an sata 3 ssd.I was at my job and had some down time so I have another 1 tb sata 3 ssd and wanted to install Slackware the same way on that drive for another system.So I remove the perfectly good ssd from my laptop that has grub as the bootloader. Everything works great.Stick in the new ssd and successfully install Slackware to that and grub as the bootloader.Same partitions as disk 1 etc.Efi, swap, /, and then a /home partition.So disk 2 is successfully set up.Then I reinstall the first ssd, that was working fine before I took it out to install Slackware to the new ssd.I boot up and get a screen about windows bootloader being corrupted etc. I don't have windows on the first drive but I did when I bought it.So I assume the efi partition is altered somehow.So I used the Slackware usb to boot the old ssd and inside linux I did all the grub-install x86_64-efi  /boot directory etc and grub now pops up again when I reboot and everything is working fine.What I'm wondering is "how" this first disk got corrupted if I removed it in perfectly fine condition before installing to my new ssd.Is something stored in the bios or something when you swap out disks? Cause that's the only thing I can imagine.How could the first disk be altered if I removed it in perfectly fine working condition?Thanks
How often do I run fstrim on my ssd? How often do I run fstrim on my ssd?u/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoHow often do I run fstrim on my ssd?I only do it when I think of it, which may be once every few weeks.I do as root ... fstrim -avHow often should I be trimming the ssd?Is there a cron way of doing it automagically?
Slackware 15.0 elilo not booting after CMOS battery change - solved Slackware 15.0 elilo not booting after CMOS battery change - solvedu/KGHN•2 yr. agoSlackware 15.0 elilo not booting after CMOS battery change - solvedSlackware 15.0 elilo machine was not booting after a CMOS battery change.  "No boot device available"  It was booting to Slackware before the battery change.  (We changed the battery because it keeps losing the time's hour whenever it's shut down and restarted - it still does, and the old battery seems fine.)BIOS Setup could see the SSD (sda, where the boot files were on sda1) and the HD sdb.Slackware 15 could be launched as an available option once the installation DVD was booted.Research found efibootmgr utility plausible to help, but there's only a Slack package for 14, not 15.We the installed Slackware via the installation DVD, and found that our Slackware 15.0 installation has efibootmgr available, but only to root use.  "not found" to normal user.  So, as root,efibootmgrcommand shows DVD, UEFI DVD, and the drives, no "Slackware".We followed instructions to create an EFI boot entry:Step 1 of 2:  We copied elilo-x86_64.efi from /boot to /boot/efi/EFI/Slackware directory , as there was no *.efi file in that directory.Then, step 2 of 2:efibootmgr --create --disk=/dev/sda --part=1 --label="Slackware" --loader='EFI\Slackware\elilo-x86_64.efi'This created an EFI boot entry and set it as the default boot.  ...Thank you for super help,https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-manage-efi-boot-manager-entries-on-linuxIt boots, hooray!  (Machines with support for the UEFI firmware stores boot entries in the non-volatile RAM called NVRAM, which needs continuous CMOS battery power to remember.  Poor thing had forgotten which drive and partition was bootable.)It took me a good while to research and solve this, so I'm posting hoping to help another Slackware fan through their research.
Can't boot from ssd . Get Syslinux ... by Peter Alvin? Can boot from Slackware install usb though ... Can't boot from ssd . Get Syslinux ... by Peter Alvin? Can boot from Slackware install usb though ...u/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoCan't boot from ssd . Get Syslinux ... by Peter Alvin? Can boot from Slackware install usb though ...Ok, so I installed Slackware 15 to my new ssd 1tb Samsung drive sata 3.I can boot Slackware fine if I use the uefi Slackware usb selection in the bios and boot to the usb install where it "detects any installed system". I press enter and see the huge kernels etc. Select huge 5.15.19 kernel and the system boots up fine.I did the grub-install --target=x86_64-efi --efi-directory=/boot/efi --bootloader-id=grubAnd then grub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfgReboot and I still get the Syslinux boot: prompt and standard large text etc.Any ideas to get grub installed so I can boot directly from grub from the ssd instead of having to use the Slackware usb to boot my system?Also, I was able to boot from the syslinux prompt, however it was like safe mode in windows where the text was really large etc 640x480 I believe.Also, is syslinux part of linux or also windows?  I read that it's not connected to Linux per se?When I select my ssd in the bios to boot to I just get a flashing prompt in the upper left and a black screen. So the computer isn't finding grub. I have sda1 as my efi partition and it's formatted as efi correctly etc.I've also tried grub-install /dev/sda (mbr install) and still get the same black screen with a flashing prompt....But no problem booting into my system from the Slackware install usb like I said ...  it's strangeAlso, is there a way to remove grub from the mbr for future reference?...Thanks
Lack of support for relatively new hardware? Lack of support for relatively new hardware?u/TheSlackOne•2 yr. agoLack of support for relatively new hardware?I have installed Slackware 15 on a few new computers and got it freezing with some ease after loading video modules.Yesterday I installed Slackware 15 on my Desktop Ryzen 7600X, 32 GB RAM, 2 TB M2 and RTX 3090. After installing the propietary drivers (because it could not start the graphic server), I got it freezing on booting.Are these few isolated cases?
Is LinuxQuestions.org Dead? Is LinuxQuestions.org Dead?u/kq6up•2 yr. agoIs LinuxQuestions.org Dead?Not as in not existing, but as far as user base is concerned.  I have had much better luck having my Linux related questions answered here on Reddit.  I know in the past it was kind of the "Slackware" forum unofficially (or maybe officially).  I am not familiar with the backstory, but have been using slackware off and on since 2000.  I find myself going back to it like an old pair of shoes, but I am having a hard time finding support with some of the older ways of doing things (like getting sendmial to play with gmail servers).Thanks-kq6up
I use updatepkg to patch software between releases. Can I compile from source instead? I use updatepkg to patch software between releases. Can I compile from source instead?u/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoI use updatepkg to patch software between releases. Can I compile from source instead?I've been using patches in the Slackware 15 /patches directory to update, mostly Firefox, etc.I usually just use the updatepkg script and it does everything automatically.I was wondering though.Say I want to completely remove Firefox and then download a source tarball and compile with gcc myself.So would I use removepkg to get rid of it?Then would running ./configure in the source directory let me know what is missing or needed to be updated to install the Firefox, or any program for that matter?I do compile my own kernels, but I haven't compiled much software from scratch recently.10 years or so ago I used to. I used to download a programs tarball and unpack it and cd ti the directory.Then I'd do ./configure, make, and then make install.It was a ton of fun watching all the text fly across the screen and keeping your fingers crossed!Oh the fun!! I used to spend 10 hours a day trying to install something, eating pizza and soda to my delight!The good ol days!! 1998!!!  In my twenties!
Iptables help. Sorry didn't see a forum for it and I'm using Slackware 15. Iptables help. Sorry didn't see a forum for it and I'm using Slackware 15.u/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoIptables help. Sorry didn't see a forum for it and I'm using Slackware 15.I'm wondering why my dhcpd under Slackware seems different with regard to source port and destination port.The iptables rules that I see for dhcp use --sport 68 and --dport 67, but if I do that on Slackware, the dhcp is dropped.My default INPUT  chain I have set to DROP.So I have to explicitly let through dhcp with..Iptables -A INPUT -p udp --sport 68 --dport 67 -j ACCEPTBut it gets blocked by the DROP rule in the INPUT chainIf I exchange the 68 and 67 on source and destination it's let though.I would think the server is port 67 and my dhcp client on my computer is 68?All the iptables scripts I see use --sport 68 and dport 67, but if I write it that way it gets blocked and if I write --sport 67 and --dport 68 it's let through....Strange.
Is there a way to run RAID on my Thinkpad T430 within Slackware? Is there a way to run RAID on my Thinkpad T430 within Slackware?u/Ezmiller_2•2 yr. agoIs there a way to run RAID on my Thinkpad T430 within Slackware?Just curious. My TDE problem was too much for me. So I installed FreeBSD 14 and was amazed at how fast pkg worked. Fastest I’ve ever seen. Couldn’t get xorg to work, and that was puzzling. Tried GhostBSD and that one errored out before the installer even got working.
Opensource online party! - tomorrow at 5 PM UTC Opensource online party! - tomorrow at 5 PM UTCu/Mike-Banon1•2 yr. agoOpensource online party! - tomorrow at 5 PM UTCDUG #4 & vPub 0x9 opensource online party! - tomorrow at 5 PM UTCr/linux•2 yr. agoDUG #4 & vPub 0x9 opensource online party! - tomorrow at 5 PM UTC---> to avoid missing out future events, join ourMatrix channelortiny-volume event notification newsletter(just ~4 e-mails per year!)Dear friend, I invite you to a joint DUG #4 + vPub 0x9 event thatstarts this Thursday at 5 PM UTC. Would you like to learn & discuss about:coreboot-based Dasharo firmware distribution and its unique features?cool hardware devices supporting the opensource firmwares, like NovaCustom new laptop?opensource firmware world and its current events in general, i.e. AMD OpenSIL news?Then this upcoming event - is an excellent opportunity for you to have a great time in a friendly company of firmware enthusiasts.The 1st part of our event - DUG #4 - is dedicated to Dasharo distribution of coreboot opensource firmware with advanced features(like GUI & FLASHBIOS)and the ecosystem around it. DUG will take place between 5-7 PM UTC - and then around 7 PM UTC will switch to vPub opensource online party! The past joint events have been highly successful and I'm sure you will find this one interesting as well ;-)Both sound/video and text chats will be available for your convenienceMore details + Join links9upvotes
Ok figured out why I can boot Slackware on my new ssd!... I think Ok figured out why I can boot Slackware on my new ssd!... I thinku/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoOk figured out why I can boot Slackware on my new ssd!... I thinkOk, so I'm using an old machine from 2009 when I built it, if I remember correctly.I've got an i5 2500k sandy bridge ASUS p8p67 moboMy mobo has never had a bios update and I still use this computer for Windows 7.So I'm still on the original 1402 bios and the last one was 3602I've installed Slackware multiple times on a correctly formatted ssd with an efi partition and it just WILL NOT boot!!I just get a blank screen and no grub at all.So I'm thinking that this computer can't boot to a ssd with the old bios?...I CAN use the Slackware 15 install usb to boot the ssd and Slackware using "detect oses menu item" at the prompt though!So I can boot a perfectly working Slackware 15 from the ssd BUT my problem is that I CAN ONLY boot it via the USB installer.Do I'm a little afraid to flash my bios as old as it is!Should I do it?Also, someone said to enable ahci in bios to be able to boot ssd.I'm not sure if it's enabled.Is there a screen in bios for ahci? Should I still upgrade bios to latest 3602 version? Thanks!!
Installing grub after Slackware on another computer and then transferring ssd to my desktop? Installing grub after Slackware on another computer and then transferring ssd to my desktop?u/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoInstalling grub after Slackware on another computer and then transferring ssd to my desktop?I've got some spare time at work and I'm gonna attempt to install Slackware 15 to a new ssd that will eventually find it's way into my home desktop as a dual boot with Winbloze 7.After the install do I use the --removable option with grub-install?Also my home computer is uefi so I'll be doing the efi grub-install and not the legacy "grub-install /dev/sda"For whatever reason, I'm having the toughest time getting grub to install on this ssd!I'm partitioning with fdisk/dev/sda1 efi./dev/sda2 swap/dev/sda3  root linux/dev/sda4  /home.I am using the uefi install option on the Slackware usb install and mounting the /dev/sda as and efi partition with vfat etc and then doing the commands properly for grub-install and I keep getting brought to a GRUB RESCUE prompt afterwards and have to resort to using the Slackware 15 usb to auto detect installed oses and booting into Slackware that way.Getting to the end of my wits!
DNS Queries to "none.lan" DNS Queries to "none.lan"u/After-Particular7744•2 yr. agoDNS Queries to "none.lan"I've noticed queries for "none.lan" stemming from a box running Slackware 15 and am not sure what is causing this. From what I understand, this behavior typically happens when a field that should be populated with a domain name is not populated.I created a logging rule in iptables and verified the root user is making these requests, but unfortunately, that doesn't narrow it down too much.Is there a way to figure out which process is causing these queries? I've seen people suggest auditctl, but that doesn't appear to be available for Slackware.
A blast from the past A blast from the pastu/tryton1024•2 yr. agoA blast from the past
Can't get rtl8192du wifi going again. Had it working for months before installing new ssd yesterday Can't get rtl8192du wifi going again. Had it working for months before installing new ssd yesterdayu/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoCan't get rtl8192du wifi going again. Had it working for months before installing new ssd yesterdayMy old hdd failed finally and I bought a shiny new Samsung ssd 1tb and installed my trusty Slackware 15 to give Windows 7 (dual boot) the finger! 😆Anyways, I had everything working until my hdd failed.  My Belkin 300 usb wifi worked under both Slackware and Windows 7 no problem.So I downloaded Larry fingers latest version 4 rtl8192du driver.I compiled a 6.3.10 kernel like I had before.Did make inside the rtl8192du master directory and installed the rtl8192du ko module file in /lib/modules/6.3.10/.... etcPut the 2 firmware .bin files in /lib/firmwareI compiled all the necessary things needed for wifi, etc into the 6.3.10 kernel and rebooted etc but networkmanager isn't picking up my wifi ...I've pretty much exhausted myself trying to figure out what's wrong.If I boot into Windows 7 it works fine. And like I said, I had it working for 6 months under Slackware 15 on the same machine. The only thing that's changed is my new ssd replacing my old hdd.If I doNmcli command I get\264u\016\364\261: unavailable Wifi (rtl8192du), 00:00:00:00:00:00, hw, mtu, 1500Nmcli radio wifi shows ENABLEDVar/logs show a bunch of stuff likeRegistered new interface driver rtl8192duRfkill0: found wifi radio killswitch at (/sys/devices/pci000... etcRfkill command shows1 wlan0 phy0 unblocked unblocked  ... for both soft and hard
Grub won't boot after installing Slackware 15 to new ssd, but will with USB install drive Grub won't boot after installing Slackware 15 to new ssd, but will with USB install driveu/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoGrub won't boot after installing Slackware 15 to new ssd, but will with USB install driveSo I had my dual boot 1 tb old hard drive fail and I got a new 1 tb ssd by Samsung Evo.Anyways, I made a 500mb efi partition, a 40 gig install partition and a separate 800 gb /home partition.At the end of the install I exited to the prompt and did mount, chroot /mnt /bin/bashAnd then installed with grub-install /dev/sdaIt worked a few times but now won't come up at boot, Windows 7 launches instead.I'm on a uefi system.I originally didGrub-install --target=x86_64-efi --efi-directory=/boot/efi --bootloader-id=grub but got an error that I can't remember off hand.Then of course I ranGrub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfgSo I have a working system, but I'm booting off the install usb using "detect any os" from the menu.Is there a way to install grub, so that I don't have to use the USB stick?Thanks
slackpkg check-updates slackpkg check-updatesu/sdns575•2 yr. agoslackpkg check-updatesHi,I'm running slackware64 15.0 and running 'slackpkg check-updates' reports me:"Slackpkg: No updated packages since last check."but if I run 'slackpkg upgrade-all' I receive a list of available packages to upgrade. This is a bug?I would say that before running 'check-updates' I run 'slackpkg update'.Thank you in advance.
Slackware64 15.0 and AppArmor Slackware64 15.0 and AppArmoru/sdns575•2 yr. agoSlackware64 15.0 and AppArmorHi,I would like to use apparmor on Slackware. I found packages on slackbuilds.org.Someone use it? If yes how do you manage the process of rebuilding when a new kernel update is released? Do you create you custom kernel packages with AA config enabled or you use a custom kernel outside Slackware tree?Any suggestion will be appreciated.(I have another question: why Mr Volkerding don't want include MAC control on Slackware or at least enable modules?)Thank you in advance
Used laptop with Slackware 15 to install to new ssd that will go in my desktop. Now I can't boot grub on laptop anymore? Used laptop with Slackware 15 to install to new ssd that will go in my desktop. Now I can't boot grub on laptop anymore?u/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoUsed laptop with Slackware 15 to install to new ssd that will go in my desktop. Now I can't boot grub on laptop anymore?Ok, so I used my laptop to install Slackware 15 via USB stick to my new 1tb ssd that I will be dual booting in my main desktop at home.My laptop has Slackware 15 on it only (thinkpad t550) and when I turned it on it would always boot to grub before I installed to new ssd.So I used a USB to sata 3 adapter plugged into my laptop to install the Slackware 15 to the new ssd via a Slackware USB stick install plugged into my laptop.Everything went great as far as partitioning and installing Slackware to my new ssd. By the way, the reason I used my laptop was I was bored and away from my desktop and thought I could save some time.So now I have Slackware 15 installed to a newly partitioned ssd and Slackware 15 is still on my laptop.The problem is that if I reboot my laptop it complains about missing Windows efi boot something and no longer boots to grub like it always did.I plugged the Slackware USB install stick in a rebooted and was able to "detect any installed operating system" in the install menu and I can boot into my Slackware 15 on the laptop.Once in Slackware, I thought that maybe I should try and do "grub-mkconfig" again, which I did.Upon reboot Without the USB install stick I still am getting the same message and no grub anymore.Do I have to reinstall grub?Thanks
So I installed TDE and now my system DM and WM are screwed up. So I installed TDE and now my system DM and WM are screwed up.u/Ezmiller_2•2 yr. agoSo I installed TDE and now my system DM and WM are screwed up.Followed the directions on the Trinity website, which had me download a script which downloaded, built, and installed TDE for me successfully. Great! But…My WiFi is stuck in that I don’t have the NetworkManager app working in TDE. The TDE WiFi app works, but I need root permission to connect to my WiFi. Unfortunately, that doesn’t work as it acts like my user doesn’t belong to wheel or I don’t have kdesu installed for TDE.Is there a way for me to get SDDM as default and get plasma going instead of TDM/TDE? I already tried xwmconfig which did nothing.I also installed TDE under /usr/opt/trinity if I remember correctly. And my ctrl+alt+bkspace doesn’t work either. I assume that’s something to do with Trinity.
Kernel update question Kernel update questionu/sdns575•2 yr. agoKernel update questionHi,I noticed that when I receive kernel update, the latest installed kernel is removed in favor of the new version. Using other distro I noticed (mainly Debian and EL-based) that the previous version of the kernel is available in the boot record in case the new version give problems.This is doable on Slackware?For example I would like to install Openzfs from slackbuilds.org and it depends on the kernel source. When a new kernel is released I need to recompile but if something will go bad during compilation for some problem I can't access data on the pool until I fix the problem. Having the previous kernel with the installed module could help me to access data if something on the new kernel goes wrong.Thank you in advance
So with AI starting to be able to build custom distros…I want Slackware with Yast! So with AI starting to be able to build custom distros…I want Slackware with Yast!u/Ezmiller_2•2 yr. agoSo with AI starting to be able to build custom distros…I want Slackware with Yast!It’s fitting because Suse was built on Slackware if I did my homework correctly.Actually I don’t really think AI is ready for building distros. And I want no part of AI.
Cavalier Slackbuild Cavalier Slackbuildu/KMReiserFS•2 yr. agoCavalier SlackbuildHi, i saw audio visualizerhttps://github.com/NickvisionApps/Cavalierand it only have offical flatpak, snap and archlinux pkg.So i made a Slackbuild.need:cava (sbo)dotnet-runtime 7 (sbo)dotnet-sdk 7 (sbo)blueprint-compiler (sbo)libadwaita 1.4https://github.com/reiserfs/slackbuild/
I'm willing to give Slackware a try... What should I know before giving it a try I'm willing to give Slackware a try... What should I know before giving it a tryu/cyb3r-1•2 yr. agoI'm willing to give Slackware a try... What should I know before giving it a tryHello, I've been using Linux for an year. I've heard  little about Slackware nowadays as Debian and other distros are getting popular. Willing to give Slackware a try but what should I know before giving it a try?
[revdep.sh] find broken package script [revdep.sh] find broken package scriptu/syazwanemmett•2 yr. ago[revdep.sh] find broken package scriptHey guys, i wrote a script to check broken package on slackware linux. Just just like 'revdep' script/tool in other source based distro. This script will print package and required missing libraries which you can use `slackpkg file-search <library>` to search which package need to install to fix it.you can get on my gisthere
How would you use a USB 3 port to install if you can’t boot off a USB 3 add-on card? How would you use a USB 3 port to install if you can’t boot off a USB 3 add-on card?u/Ezmiller_2•2 yr. agoHow would you use a USB 3 port to install if you can’t boot off a USB 3 add-on card?I’m sitting here installing Suse Leap on my X3550 and wondering…this machine has 16gb ram, SSDs, and two CPUs. That’s more than enough for a command line/terminal/server install and use. But it’s taking quite a while to install using USB2.So Slackware asks you, during install, where your install media is. Does that mean I could plug two flash drives into my system—one on the native USB2 port for booting— and one on an add on card with USB3–and see increased install speed? I’m just thinking about older systems that haven’t bitten the dust yet and just need a USB 3.0 and maybe a low-power GPU and they would be perfectly useable for most gui cases.And there’s the issue of not having a rack for my x3550 or fire v125. One sits on a box and the other is lying gathering dust.
Three broken installs in three days. Oh, boy... Three broken installs in three days. Oh, boy...u/OldHighway7766•2 yr. agoThree broken installs in three days. Oh, boy...Recent Slackware user here, as you guys surely have already notice by the post title.The first broken system was due to a wild upgrade from15tocurrentwhich ended in a big glibc mess. Fresh reinstalled and started over.The second broken system was  due to a kernel upgrade. Yes, I didn't blacklisted the kernel. Then I booted into a live system, fixed the mess and recovered it into a bootable state.Finally I  got myself piloting a decent, beautiful  Slackwarecurrentrunning under full sail. This time I did not manage to break the entire system but a couple of apps which resulted in a rage quit.Now I'm prepared to try again. :-)Regarding the point 3. above I have a guess of what I did wrong: while on15I installed a few things from Slackbuilds. Then I upgraded tocurrentandI thinkI forgot to change the Slackbuilds repo tocurrent.Then installed (and reinstalled) a few more things oncurrentfrom Slackbuilds repo on15.I remember things won't compiling anymore (manynon-zeroexit codes during compilations) and other broken things. That could have been the cause of my #3 issue?I still have many, many doubts and questions but let me read the Docs properly before bugging around here again :-)
Install by mistake all KDE packages Install by mistake all KDE packagesu/feelsonix84•2 yr. agoInstall by mistake all KDE packagesHi, i have forget to uncheck all KDE package when i have write install-new command. I wan to remove them, anyone has a command or a listing of all package for KDE in slackware 15 ? Thx
I'm a SlackBuild script maintainer now I'm a SlackBuild script maintainer nowu/DerShokus•2 yr. agoI'm a SlackBuild script maintainer nowHi! I just wanna share, that I'm a SlackBuild script maintainer now. Last week I pushedbuild2SlackBuild script.I think, most of you have not hear about the program, but for me it's very useful. Writing the script was quite easy and fun (in contrast with rpm or dep packages).That's it, I'm just happy they accepted my first submission :).
Do I really need and encrypted root? Do I really need and encrypted root?u/OldHighway7766•2 yr. agoDo I really need and encrypted root?I'm just a regular person. Just to clearify my threat model: no industrial secrets, no illegal material, not politically engaged (to a point to be threatened by any means) and so on. Still I do want some sort of privacy in case my notebook got stolen or lost. So, my question is: just encrypted home and swap  wouldn't be enough?
is slackware stopped? is slackware stopped?u/few09099•2 yr. agois slackware stopped?hi guys I was wondering if Slackware has stopped in terms of updates such as security updates, packages, etc. and whether the Slackware project has been discontinued?
Why is the point of using Slackware in 2023? Why is the point of using Slackware in 2023?u/sdns575•2 yr. agoWhy is the point of using Slackware in 2023?Hi,I was a Slackware user in the past, I started from 10.1 to 13.37 regularly but used sporadically also 14.2 and 15.0. I used it for server.Some days ago I installed Slackware64 15.0 on a spare ssd to check if a temp sensor of my mobo is supported on kernel 6.5. The process was really simple for me (compiling and testing), the end of the story is: my motherboard is not supported actually.Over this I played with Slack a bit more and I noticed that nothing is changed since many releases. With this I mean things like:Same installer since 10.1Same problem on first boot (after installation) of keyboard mapping on X11No locale selection during the installation processNo packages dep resolution for base system packages. I know that Slack should be installed as shipped but sometimes I want a lighter system and removing many software manually or starting installing from a minimal set and install needed software put me on the risk to have a not working system with the result I need to run ldd to check what packages are needed and so on. Dep handling missing is not that bad but many users in 2023 expect this.Many old software that I don't use..things like blackbox, fluxbox and others.Many new software missing from base like postgresql, php-pgsql, qemu and virtualization, container (docker or podman), wireshark, libreoffice, iotop and many others.For all software not in base I need to compile it myself and this requires much time when you are using more than 130 packages (deps included) that you can't find on the base but on slackbuilds.org plus I should maintain those packagesGRUB boot loader missingMAC missing (apparmor/SELinux)Really slow update process. After installation I run slackpkg update but it takes so much time compared to other like apt or dnf.Actually, I don't see any advantage of using it as a server versus other distro and I feel Slaclware like an hobby distro.So what is the point of using Slackware in 2023 except as hobby distro?Thank you in advance
Slackware and temperature sensor Slackware and temperature sensoru/sdns575•2 yr. agoSlackware and temperature sensorHi,I have an Asus PRIME Z490-A paired with i9-10850k. On this motherboard I have a 2-pin port for 2-pin temperature sensor. Actually I connected a sensor that is visible in the BIOS but not under lm-sensors. Currently on this machine I'm running debian12 with kernel 6.1. I tried live version of fedora38 with kernel 6.2 but no luck. I tried also debian 12 backport kernel (6.4) without no luck.Searching on the web I found an article on phoronix where more than 100 asus mobo are supported in kernel 6.5 with the module asus_ce_sensor and mine is listed as supported mobo. So I should try to install 15.1, recompile the kernel to 6.5 and see if the sensor data will be available. I feel more comfortable to do this on slack that on other system so actually this is my system of choice for this test. I have some question:Someone with a MOBO Z490 or superior (z590, z690, z790) with a sensor attached to t_sensor port can read temp without problem from this sensor also without recompiling the kernel? I noticed that this issue is less problematic on AMD side. If you have an AMD mobo and a sensor please report your result.After compiling the new kernel I should update  lm-sensors package?Thank you in advance.
Help: missing libinih.so Help: missing libinih.sou/unixbhaskar•2 yr. agoHelp: missing libinih.soUpdated the system and tried running mkfs.xfs on device and it threw the error thatlibinih.sois missing.Pls throw some light.  I am on slackware-current .
Gobbly goo on my screen after "catting" a binary file? Gobbly goo on my screen after "catting" a binary file?u/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoGobbly goo on my screen after "catting" a binary file?Not a big deal cause I can reboot, but I'm at the terminal (not in x) in Slackware and I did a "cat somebinaryfile and a lot of "gibberish" is now on my terminal and it won't go away!I even tried logging in and out.I know I can reboot, but in a situation like this, is there another way to clear the screen?Also, what did I corrupt by catting a binary file to stdout?Just curious.ThanksUpdate**I did do a full screen program like htop and upon exiting htop my screen is now back to normal and I don't have to reboot.I'm still wondering what gets "corrupted " when you send a binary file to stdout.And is there a way to reset without having to launch a full screen program?
Installing Slackware 15 on a Thinkpad T61 Installing Slackware 15 on a Thinkpad T61u/sadsfae•2 yr. agoInstalling Slackware 15 on a Thinkpad T61I learned and cut my teeth on Slackware, the last version I ran being 7.1.  Really missing it I picked up an old Thinkpad T61 and installed Slackware 15 on it.This is a tale of my adventures.In particular the Intel iwl4965 Wifi didn't work out of the box without special modprobe options.I've got a few hardware upgrades in the mix, everything works great.  Here's to hoping this helps someone else reviving old hardware with some Slack.
[HELP] Can't connect to wifi on thinkpad x220 (networkmanager) [HELP] Can't connect to wifi on thinkpad x220 (networkmanager)u/MediocreLanklet•2 yr. ago[HELP] Can't connect to wifi on thinkpad x220 (networkmanager)Trying to connect to wifi from x220, but I keep getting the "Secrets were required, but not provided" error message after trying to set up wifi with nmtui after a fresh install (no other users).
Should I 'Get Slack'? Should I 'Get Slack'?[deleted]•2 yr. agoShould I 'Get Slack'?I started using Linux for real just a few months ago roughly one year after I downloaded Linux Mint and quickly switched back to Windows after thinking it was 'to complicated'I picked Manjaro to give Linux another chance, but now I'm using Arch. It has been a huge learning experience, and I have absolutely zero complaints about Arch, but I know that eventually, I'm going to have to reinstall, for whatever reason that is.So, I'm preparing to do the switch, I'm going to use whatever distro I pick as my daily driver, and what I mostly have in mind are the learning opportunities, that's why I'm planning on using only distros traditionally considered as more difficult.And currently, Slackware is winning me, 'cause I heard it doesn't really hold your hand and you got to set it up by yourself, but if you do it correctly you will end up with a very versatile distro. And because of it's history too, it's the most Unix-like distro and the oldest that is still in activity, so I think it makes sense to expect to learn a lot just from daily-driving it.Anyways, what do you, more experienced Slack users have to say? Is it a good learning experience like I think it is? Should I switch? What should I expect? I wanna hear your thoughts!
Actually a Salix question - Actually a Salix question -u/oradba•2 yr. agoActually a Salix question --but that subreddit is really quiet.  Anyway - I am trying to boot the Live installation on a Dell 9520 (XPS 15).  The thing won't even boot - it hangs after it says it decompressed init.gz.  I waited ten minutes to give it time to work (it's a 12-gen i7 on 32GB of RAM, so that is a generous amount of time), but it hangs.  Has anyone successfully booted this?  Are there any particular boot parameters I should use?Thank you.
What's the most barebones Slackware 15 I can install? What's the most barebones Slackware 15 I can install?u/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoWhat's the most barebones Slackware 15 I can install?How many programs / packages would I need for a barebones Slackware?I basically just browse the web and program in C and assembly so I know I'd need an editor such as Vim.Then I know I'd need the assembler as, ld linker and gcc or at least equivalents.I'd need a browser like Firefox is what I use. Not sure what dependencies I'd need for that.Then I'd probably need iptables or whatever for firewall and dhcpd.Probably need the basic utility like mkdir, mv, touch, etc.But basically I bet there's a lot that can be removed from the installer during install?Also if I go around removing packages via pkgtool does it warn you of things that depend on that program?What I'd like to do is take my present FULL installation and try slowly removing things that I don't think are necessary or that I'll ever use one by one as a challenge.
Why doesn't the Linux community ever mention Slackware as a distro?!! Why doesn't the Linux community ever mention Slackware as a distro?!!u/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoWhy doesn't the Linux community ever mention Slackware as a distro?!!I'm getting a little tired of all the Linux forums never mentioning Slackware as a legitimate ditro!All you.ever hear about on yutbe etc is Mint, Ubuntu, Gentoo and Arch!!I'm getting sick ofnit frankly!And the average linux user today wants something basically like Windows and they want to remain ignorant to commands, rc files, setting things up etc.I mean I got into Linux years ago because I'm a programmer and I actually want to edit files, look under the hood, etc.All the youtube video are "Hey GT, what games can I run on Ubuntu?!!" Crap.And if they do mention Slackware they say it's old and you have to be some wizard to know how to install it, etc.I just don't understand why nobody mentions Slackware much anymore.  I guess people like updating everything every other day and maybe feel Slackware is out of date?I run my system just fine and the only thing I update regularly with patches is Firefox and once in a while, the kernel.Also the people saying that they're installing Linux cause Windows 10 is Spyware be warned that Ubuntu does the same things now!Richard Stallman recently put out a talk where he stated that Ubuntu phones home to Amazon and they send you adds.They've supposedly removed it, but someone else said they've installed other spyware.Most Linux distros are becoming bloatware addware also nowadays.
If Slackware had a slogan, what would it be? If Slackware had a slogan, what would it be?u/Ezmiller_2•2 yr. agoIf Slackware had a slogan, what would it be?“This video is powered by Slackware Linux. Keep it simple stupid!”
How shall I move to this distro from Endeavouros How shall I move to this distro from Endeavouros[deleted]•2 yr. agoHow shall I move to this distro from EndeavourosWell, I've saw the advantages of this, and am mentally prepared to distrohop. I've used Endeavouros for a good few months (yeah I'm kind of new), and I wonder what I should know or do when I move to Slackware.
So Suse still provides install files for KDE 3. Crazy! So Suse still provides install files for KDE 3. Crazy!u/Ezmiller_2•2 yr. agoSo Suse still provides install files for KDE 3. Crazy!I’ve tried TDE as a replacement for years, but it has some quirks that are just weird. Usually audio or video problems.Man that brings back some memories of having to manually setup entries on /etc/fstab to get external usb/flash drive support working. Go google some guy’s random post somewhere and hope it worked. Half the time I misspelled or misnumbered something the first time.
Updating glibc? I'm scared!! Updating glibc? I'm scared!!u/apooroldinvestor•2 yr. agoUpdating glibc? I'm scared!!I remember years ago trying to upgrade libc and breaking my whole system. Man what a pain!.Anyways, to go to the latest Firefox slackware package it said I need a newer glibc.How difficult is it to upgrade glibc?What about gcc?And if I upgrade gcc will I have to update as and ld separately?Thanks.I'm mainly concerned with glibc though.Also, is there a way to compile the latest Firefox without upgrading glibc?I currently am running 115 er1 and the latest Slackware current is 115 er2 I think.
Running 15 or current? Running 15 or current?u/musings-26•2 yr. agoRunning 15 or current?Relatively new Slackware user here. Out of curiosity are people running Slackware 15 or current?I'm on 15 but considering moving to current but would like to hear any pros or cons.Thanks.
Interactive scripts on shutdown Interactive scripts on shutdown[deleted]•2 yr. agoInteractive scripts on shutdownI want to run a yes/no dialog upon shutdown or reboot. The dialog works but the keyboard does not work. Unable to select yes or no. Is there a workaround for this?
xlock boxed in Slackware xlock boxed in Slackwareu/iu1j4•2 yr. agoxlock boxed in SlackwareHello, I installed Slackware on new hidpi laptop and during tests I found that xlock -nolock -mode  boxed doesnt work as expected. It reaches an infinite loop and the only way to stop it is killing it from a terminal. Then I tested ot on my main laptop without hidpi display and get the same results. Can you check the test on your Slackware installs to comfirm that it is Slackware problem or my both laptops installs problem. Lets do similar tests on other linux distros if you can. Thanks for your results
[Q] Which OS if Slackware wouldn't exist [Q] Which OS if Slackware wouldn't existu/bsdooby•2 yr. ago[Q] Which OS if Slackware wouldn't existIn a parallel universe, if Slackware ceased to exist or never existed, which OS (Linux-based, *BSD, Windows and derivatives, Haiku, Serenity, ...) would you install on your spaceship's internal computer, or your personal device? If Linux, which distro (CRUX, Void, ...)?
Slackware 15 and ZFS Slackware 15 and ZFSu/sdns575•2 yr. agoSlackware 15 and ZFSHi,I would like to use ZFS on Slackware from slackbuilds.org.I tried zfs on Ubuntu LTS using ZFS packages provided by distro repository, I tried AlmaLinux and ZFS using Kabi package from main site to avoid rebuild at every kernel upgrade.In case of slackware 15, what will happen when a new kernel is released? I should use dkms or it is like kabi packages?Thank you in advance
I think I’m going to make the switch I think I’m going to make the switchu/ImageJPEG•2 yr. agoI think I’m going to make the switchI’m just having far too many issues with FreeBSD, specifically with sound, and have been looking around at some Linux distros to try out.It looks like Slack may be the closest thing I’m wanting - something that’s very BSD like, and it looks like Slack is fairly close to that.I’m into amateur radio and it looks like QSSTV and fldigi are available so that’s fantastic!I know the package manager does not track dependencies.If I install an app but it needs a dependency, is there a good way I can figure that out myself? Oh, and is there a way to put 3rd party packages under /usr/local by default?Is there anything else I should know?
Daily update check script Daily update check scriptu/Puschel_das_Eichhorn•3 yr. agoDaily update check scriptYet another shell script nobody asked for, but which might be useful to some people:Automatic updates (or update reminders) are relatively easy to configure usingcronand similar tools, but, generally speaking,cronassumes that the computer is turned on all day, and the update moment is easily missed when the computer is only online at irregular intervals. Another pitfall of automating updates, is that checking for updates might fail because of either lack of network connectivity, or an already running package manager.This scripts addresses both of these issues, by ensuring that it only checks for updates once a day, no matter how often it is called, and by checking for slackpkg lock files and reachability of the mirror before running.The user will be notified by email, both when updates are found to be available, and when checking for updates failed.#!/bin/sh  # Functions for sending mails. A locally running SMTP server (or sSMTP) is assumed to be present. mail_user_updates_available() {     printf "Updates are available for your Slackware system.\nYou can install them using:\n\nslackpkg update\nslackpkg upgrade-all" | mail -s 'Updates available' $USER }  mail_user_cannot_check_for_updates() {     printf "Automatic update checking failed.\nPlease, check your internet connection and ensure that slackpkg isn't already running.\n\n(run rm /var/lock/slackpkg.*)" | mail -s 'Automatic update checking failed' $USER }   # Functions for checking if updates have been checked for today, already. If this functionality is not required, these functions can be removed and check_updates can be called directly. check_existence_datefile() {     if [ -e /tmp/last_update_check.date ]; then         check_datefile     else         check_updates     fi }  check_datefile() {     if [ $(cat /tmp/last_update_check.date) -ne $(date "+%Y%m%d") ]; then         check_updates     fi }  write_datefile() {     date "+%Y%m%d" > /tmp/last_update_check.date }   # The function that does the real work here check_updates() {     # Check if there is a lock file for slackpkg present     if [  -e /var/lock/slackpkg.* ]; then          mail_user_cannot_check_for_updates          return 1     fi        # Ensure that the slackware mirror is reachable     if nc -zw1 mirrors.slackware.com 443; then         # Check if there are updates available (nested if statement)         if [ "$(slackpkg check-updates | grep 'No updated' | wc -w)" -ne 7 ]; then              mail_user_updates_available         fi          # Should only be run if checking for updates has succeeded         write_datefile     else         mail_user_cannot_check_for_updates         return 1     fi      }  # Global scope  USER='username' # Replace by your own username or e-mailaddress.   check_existence_datefile
Script for automatic dependency resolution Script for automatic dependency resolutionu/Puschel_das_Eichhorn•3 yr. agoScript for automatic dependency resolutionI wrote a shell script that automatically finds dependencies for a program using ldd, and installs them using slackpkg. It's especially convenient if you like to use a few KDE programs, but don't like waiting for slackpkg to update all of the KDE disk set all the time.Usage is like./script <application>.#!/bin/sh  BINARY=$1 # The name of the program should be the first argument given to the script.  # Runs ldd on the program, finds the relevant dynamically linked libraries, strips them of their file extensions (this will maximize the number of search results later on), sorts them, removes duplicates and adds them all to a single string, separated by spaces. DEP_STRING=$(ldd $(which $BINARY) | grep 'not found' | cut -d ' ' -f 1 | cut -f 2 | cut -d '.' -f 1 | sort | uniq | paste -d ' ' -s)     # Check if there are any libraries in DEP_STRING, and display a message and exit the script if this is not the case if [ "$(echo $DEP_STRING | wc -w)" == 0 ]; then     echo "No missing dependencies were found for this program"     exit 0 fi  ## Prints the dynamically linked libraries found by ldd # echo $DEP_STRING  PACKAGE_STRING=" " # Creates new empty string  # Runs slackpkg file-search for each item in DEP_STRING, limits the output to lines containing "unin" (for packages which are not yet installed), removes unnecessary information in each line, formats everything in a single, space-separated string, and adds this string to the end of PACKAGE_STRING. for arg in "$DEP_STRING"; do   PACKAGE_STRING="${PACKAGE_STRING} $(slackpkg file-search "$arg" | grep unin | cut -d ' ' -f 4 | paste -d ' ' -s)" done  # Sorts PACKAGE_STRING and strips it of duplicates PACKAGE_STRING=$(echo $PACKAGE_STRING | tr '\ ' '\n' | sort | uniq | paste -d ' ' -s)   # If the script is run as root, call slackpkg. Otherwise, tell the user how to do this. if [ "$(id -u)" == 0 ]; then     slackpkg install $PACKAGE_STRING else     echo "To install the dependencies for this program, run:"     echo "# slackpkg install" $PACKAGE_STRING fi
Any good tutorials for setting up a file server? Any good tutorials for setting up a file server?u/Ezmiller_2•3 yr. agoAny good tutorials for setting up a file server?Preferably something that is still relevant? I’ve never set up a file server before. I was thinking of going the LAMP approach, but wasn’t sure how well it works.
GRUB2 debuting as default bootloader in 15.1 GRUB2 debuting as default bootloader in 15.1u/livestradamus•3 yr. agoGRUB2 debuting as default bootloader in 15.1https://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/slackware-14/requests-for-current-next-15-0-15-1-a-4175706801/page175.html#post6447467volkerdi: "Fully grubifying Slackware needs to happen for 15.1, yes. But kiss the old stuff goodbye or maintain and install it yourself (good luck with elilo as UEFI continues its mutation)."No objections to this but as a longtime LILO then ELILO user, I am digesting the news.
Is the Slackware current kernel stable? Is the Slackware current kernel stable?u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoIs the Slackware current kernel stable?I noticed there's a 6.1 kernel and system map and config in the Slackware 64 current directory.Is that considered stable by Patrick?I usually download an compile my own kernels but my last attempt I messed something up and can't figure out so had to resort to generic 5.15.19.So maybe it's better to download the current stable 6.1 and go from there removing things I don't need slowly and then recompiling instead of doing menuconfig from makedefconfig?
Are there any ssds I should avoid for Slackware? Are there any ssds I should avoid for Slackware?u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoAre there any ssds I should avoid for Slackware?I'm looking at Samsung, crucial  and they have a fanxiang or something for about $35.... wondering why it's so cheap....But basically I need a sata 3 ... 2.5 ssd for both my desktop and my new thinkpad 550. Looking to go 1 to.Why is the fanxiang one $35 and crucial and most others around $47?...Are they basically all reliable?
Is Slackware dead? I'm kind of worried. Should I be? Is Slackware dead? I'm kind of worried. Should I be?u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoIs Slackware dead? I'm kind of worried. Should I be?I keep seeing posts that Slackware "was" dead (before the arrival of 15) and I'm always seeing posts that Slackware is old and not up to date like other distros.I was away from Slackware for over 10 years and just got reinterested in programming and computer science as a hobby have sparked my curiosity again.Also, I am still barely running Windows 7 and refuse to go to Windows 10 as I feel Windows is even more intrusive and controlling nowadays and I feel it's only going to get worse as the years go by.I am turned off to other Linux distros and always have been because a lot of them try and act like Windows and dumb things down, which I can understand for the average user that doesn't care about tinkering and knowing how things work.I'm not as hard-core though as linux from scratch or gentoo but I do like compiling most programs from scratch as I'm into programming (c and assembly mostly and learning ncurses).So I'm worried that Slackware may be coming to an end?I don't really update things on.my system other than maybe Firefox and stuff.Should I worry that things aren't always up to date?I realize that Slackware is more difficult to keep up to date and I guess that's a plus of a lot of other ditros, but again I don't like the idea of automatically updating and having programs check for dependencies etc as I feel it dumbs down the user and my quest is to learn more, not be dumbed down.I also feel that Slackware is not used much these days?I mean every other video on youtube is about arch, gentoo or God forbid, Linux mint and Ubuntu!.... excuse me while I barf!  😆Anyways what are yout thoughts on Slackware and feeling like you're on a sinking ship?...Is Slackware going to keep on keeping on?I realize there's a Slackware current,  but I don't really feel a constant need to mess with my install I guess ... if it ain't broke don't fix it?Anyways just ranting I suppose ....
Does Slackware automatically do fstrim on ssds? Does Slackware automatically do fstrim on ssds?u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoDoes Slackware automatically do fstrim on ssds?I am about to get a new ssd drive and install Slackware. I've never had one. Do I have to manually do fstrim or does Slackware do it?Also, I never use my swap partition and heard ots not good to use swap on an ssd?Do you make a swap partition during install still? Thanks
About Slackware maintenance About Slackware maintenanceu/Yubao-Liu•3 yr. agoAbout Slackware maintenancehttps://git.slackware.nl/current/tree/The ChangeLog.txt and some other files are well formatted, what tools are used to generate these files?https://git.slackware.nl/current/tree/sourceThe two shell scripts don’t consider package dependency, of course Slackware doesn’t have that. The build_world.sh just repeats building until all packages are successfully built, but due to automatic dependency detection of autoconf, the built packages’ features are affected by build order, isn’t this problematic?Does Slackware have some daily job to check package release from upstream? I find Slackware current has very fresh update, I don’t believe Patrick tracks releases daily by manually browsing homepages of every packages.
Firewall help using iptables Firewall help using iptablesu/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoFirewall help using iptablesSo I'm wondering if I should check if a packet is related and established first and then route it through my "bad-tcp-packets" chainOr do you check to see if the inbound tcp packet is bad every time and THEN route it to the established related check?Doesn't that defeat the purpose of checking if a packet is established and related first?Or could i just do:Iptables -A INPUT -p ALL -m conntrack --ctstate ESTABLISHED, RELATED -j ACCEPTAnd be done with checking for "bad tcp packets "I mean if I initiate a connection and the inbound connection matches the above rule, won't it be safe?Thanks
Install multilib without hosing my system? Install multilib without hosing my system?u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoInstall multilib without hosing my system?I tried installing alien bobs multilib so that I can compile 32 bit programs in C.Anyways I ended up screwing something up and gcc would no longer compile anything, so i just reinstalled Slackware 15.Am I doing something wrong?Does the multilib have to match my gcc version or Glibc version?Thanks
Slackware 14.0 has been maintained for more than 10 years Slackware 14.0 has been maintained for more than 10 yearsu/Yubao-Liu•3 yr. agoSlackware 14.0 has been maintained for more than 10 yearsAny other commercial or non-commercial Linux distribution maintained for so long?And Slackware has only about10 maintainers, amazing!Fri Jul 21 19:35:45 UTC 2023 patches/packages/ca-certificates-20230721-noarch-1_slack14.0.txz:  Upgraded.   This update provides the latest CA certificates to check for the   authenticity of SSL connections.  ...  +--------------------------+ Wed Sep 26 01:10:42 UTC 2012 Slackware 14.0 x86_64 stable is released!  We're perfectionists here at Slackware, so this release has been a long time a-brewing.  But we think you'll agree that it was worth the wait. Slackware 14.0 combines modern components, ease of use, and flexible configuration... our "KISS" philosophy demands it.  The ISOs are off to be replicated, a 6 CD-ROM 32-bit set and a dual-sided 32-bit/64-bit x86/x86_64 DVD.  Please consider supporting the Slackware project by picking up a copy from store.slackware.com.  We're taking pre-orders now, and offer a discount if you sign up for a subscription.  Thanks to everyone who helped make this happen.  The Slackware team, the upstream developers, and (of course) the awesome Slackware user community.  Have fun!  :-)
Sensors not showing my 4 core Temps anymore? Sensors not showing my 4 core Temps anymore?u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoSensors not showing my 4 core Temps anymore?I used to get core1 to core 4 Temps of my 15 2500k cpu when I typed 'sensors' .I've compiled a new 6.3 kernel and I no longer get it.Is there something I'm leaving out?I have the coretemp module loaded and hwmon when I do lsmod.It does show my fan rpms though which seem to automatically go up if I compile a kernel or stress the cpu.I tried running sensors-detect, but nothing changes.Sensors used to list core1 to core 4 along with each temp plus the fan rpms.Thanks
Slackware logo rplace.live Slackware logo rplace.liveu/WhatSgone_•3 yr. agoSlackware logo rplace.live
Wow the storm that Red Hat is causing on Reddit is crazy! Wow the storm that Red Hat is causing on Reddit is crazy!u/Ezmiller_2•3 yr. agoWow the storm that Red Hat is causing on Reddit is crazy!I’m just going to sit back and observe from here lol. I might get trampled in ther/Linuxriot.
Slackware turns 30! 🤟 😍 Slackware turns 30! 🤟 😍u/unixbhaskar•3 yr. agoSlackware turns 30! 🤟 😍
Got my Broadcom wifi going on my laptop woo-hoo! Bcm4312 Got my Broadcom wifi going on my laptop woo-hoo! Bcm4312u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoGot my Broadcom wifi going on my laptop woo-hoo! Bcm4312Ok I figured out how to get my b43 wifi going finally in my old 2008 Lenovo 3000 g530!I download b43-fwcutter.tar.gz, b43-fwcutter-019.tar.bz2, and lwfingers "broadcom-wl-6.30.163 46.wl.tar.bz2I'm not sure of the steps, but I basically got a slackbuild file and needed to put the b43*019.tar.bz2 file in my home directory and then I installed b43-fwcutter tool.I used the tool from the command line to extract all the fw files from lwfingers "broadcom-wl" file that was a .o file after I extracted it.I think I did something likeb43-fwcutter -w /home/Broadcom after creating the /home/Broadcom directory.All the fw files ended up under the Broadcom directory in another directory called "b43"I became root and copied this directory to /lib/firmware and rebooted and turned on my wifi switch and viola!!Just wanted to put this out for anyone trying to get the Broadcom wifi, in my case the bcm4312 chip, going.
Happy 30th, Slackware! (I don't use Slackware, so I hopped over to DistroSea for this) Happy 30th, Slackware! (I don't use Slackware, so I hopped over to DistroSea for this)u/ObserverAtLarge•3 yr. agoHappy 30th, Slackware! (I don't use Slackware, so I hopped over to DistroSea for this)
Reading fan rpms on a Lenovo g530 with a T3500 pentium cpu? Reading fan rpms on a Lenovo g530 with a T3500 pentium cpu?u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoReading fan rpms on a Lenovo g530 with a T3500 pentium cpu?I have an older Lenovo 3000 g530 laptop from about 2008, I believe. It's a dual core pentium t3500.Just installed Slackware 15 on it and everything works great so far.I'm trying to get lm_sensors configured and pwmconfig says "no modules loaded or something, but I do have various sensor modules loaded and "sensors" command gives me:BAT1-acpiAdapter: acpi interfaceIn0:  15.93vCurr1:  0.00aCoretemp-isa-0000 Adapter: Isa adapterCore 0:  +71.0 cCore1:  +74.0 cAcpitz-acpi-0Adapter: acpi interfaceTemp1:  +69.0cNote that at the time of those readings I was compiling a new 6.4.2 kernel, normally they're around 49c.Anyways, how do I get fan rpms?Pwmconfig did say though that a lot of mobos don't have a way to report fan rpms?Thanks
Single package manager to manage slack pkgs and sbo pkgs? Single package manager to manage slack pkgs and sbo pkgs?u/Yubao-Liu•3 yr. agoSingle package manager to manage slack pkgs and sbo pkgs?Slackpkg doesn’t manage SBo packages, slpkg/sbopkg/sboui don’t manage Slackware official packages.Anybody manage them with single tool?
Help getting bcm4312 wifi going? Help getting bcm4312 wifi going?u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoHelp getting bcm4312 wifi going?I have an old laptop from 2006 with a Broadcom b43 wifi.So I see b43 listed when I do an lsmod.I also looked in /lib/firmware and see that there's a folder with bcm43xx.fw and .bin files that came with the default  Slackware 15 install.Isn't that the firmware? Or do I need other firmware?My Broadcom chip is the 4312.No wifi comes up and I don't have wlan listed when I do ifconfig -a, so I'm assuming I need firmware?
Thinking of getting a refurbished ThinkPad for under $300 for Slackware. Thinking of getting a refurbished ThinkPad for under $300 for Slackware.u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoThinking of getting a refurbished ThinkPad for under $300 for Slackware.My Lenovo ideapad crapped the bed. I'm getting a black screen upon boot and I've unhooked battery and all that and it's still not working.  Gives me an excuse to finally get a Thinkpad!!So I'm thinking of something a little older with an i5 at least.  I'm not a gamer so I don't need anything  really fast.Amazon has a lot of refurbished t580s and stuff.So is refurbished ok?Also will Slackware install out of box to and ssd?Most of them ssds.I'll probably upgrade the ssds anyways.Any things to look out for?Any particular ssds that I shouldn't get?P.s. I have an old Lenovo g530 and it's really sturdy and has the great thinkpad type keyboard, but it doesn't play hd video well since it has an old dual core etc.
Do you need fancontrol program? Do you need fancontrol program?u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoDo you need fancontrol program?I just got the pwmconfig program working and have the proper modules loaded now to control or sense the hwmon stuff like cpu, fans and stuff.Anyways, I compiled a kernel to stress my cpu and also played some hd video at the same time and my cpu went from 42c to up around 75c. Each of the 4 cores. I have a sandy bridge i5 2500k cpu.My fans rpms went from 1100 to around 1800 or so or maybe 2000, so I know that something is controlling the fans.Do I need to set up that fan control program?It looks like everything is working without it.I also read somewhere that fan control can be dangerous to run?Thanks.P.s. I also didn't have the i2c modules built so I went back and recompiled the kernel with them.Im.not sure what bus they're needed for, but I thought it had something to do with my Radeon graphics card. Hd6850. 1 gig ram.Anyways, pwmconfig gives a warning about i2c test could be dangerous and warns before running.Is it dangerous to run?Basically I think pwmconfig looks for sensors and tells you what modules you need.
Is Slackware 15 using ipv6? Https ports 443 80? Is Slackware 15 using ipv6? Https ports 443 80?u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoIs Slackware 15 using ipv6? Https ports 443 80?I see in my netstat that my connections are using tcp6 along with some type.I also see that the dhcpv6 is being used on udp6?Also see that ports are listed as 443 and I think I saw an 80, but it looks like I'm using all https rather than http.Why does the local port show ports in the 45000 range and then the remote as 443?Does the local computer go out on a higher port and then connect to port 443?Sorry,  kind of new to tcp/ip.
No passphrase prompt using FDE and eLilo No passphrase prompt using FDE and eLilou/jcarnat•3 yr. agoNo passphrase prompt using FDE and eLiloHi,My ThinkPad X1 Carbon 10th Gen runs -current installed with UEFI and full disk encryption.At boot, the passphrase prompt is not displayed. I can type it blindly and it will boot. But on other ThinkPad (T460s and X260), the prompt appears.Any idea what to do to have the prompt appear? Maybe some parameters to elilo and/or mkinitrd?Thanks.
Hard drive makes click every minute. Can't use hdparm on my drives. Hard drive makes click every minute. Can't use hdparm on my drives.u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoHard drive makes click every minute. Can't use hdparm on my drives.I have an old Windows 7 computer from 2009 that I'm still using as a dual boot between windows 7 and slackware 15.I used to be able to use hdparm on another computer,  but these drives hdparm reports back something like acoustic management not supported.It's doesn't make these clicks under Windows 7.I was thinking of getting an ssd to install Slackware  on but I'm running an.old Asus p8p67 mobo. I believe it's either the vanilla or Evo version.
Can't upgrade to latest Firefox? Glibc needs to be updated? Can't upgrade to latest Firefox? Glibc needs to be updated?u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoCan't upgrade to latest Firefox? Glibc needs to be updated?I remember years ago trying to update glibc and it screwed my whole system up so I'm a little weary to update it.I had the default Firefox that comes with Slackware  15.  I think it was 95 esr version?Well upgradepkg removed it and then complained that the new Firefox,  115 couldn't be installed because glibc needs to be updated?So now I have NO Firefox.   I've been getting by with Konqueror and  Falcon, which I don't think is too bad.Help appreciated.
Questions about slackbuilds.org policy updade and how much I need to upgrade a package Questions about slackbuilds.org policy updade and how much I need to upgrade a packageu/sdns575•3 yr. agoQuestions about slackbuilds.org policy updade and how much I need to upgrade a packageHi,I have some questions and hope to no break community rules or going OT.How is the update policy on slackbuilds.org? For example: actually there is Slackware 15.0 and from my point of view, slackbuild related to a version should get only minor upgrade than major upgrade. Now suppose that I download virt-manager. This slackbuild during time receives upgrades but what type of upgrades? It is a minor version upgrade (like for bug fixes) or it could be a major upgrade with new features? A major upgrade could happen for the same slackware version or I will receive always a minor upgrade for the same slackware version? Or the entrire decisional process if upgrade with minor or upgrade with major is decided by the maintainer?Reading slackbuilds.org changelog I see that some packages are updated costantly (thank you for your effort). Do you upgrade your packages everytime that a new update on slackbuilds.org?Reading changelog on slackbuilds.org I see many packages get upgraded with "updated for version x.x.x". This type of information is not useful because there is not an useful information, for exame I can't get the upgrade purpose and choose if apply upgrade or not. There could be a way to have message like "upgraded to version x.x.x for bug fixes or CVE or new feature"? I know that I can find these information on software page but with this information the changelog could be more consistent and give useful information. This is a bad request? It is possible to accomplish this on slackbuilds.org? This thing is maintainer related?Thank you in advance and sorry for multiple questions.
Kernel config for i5 2500k sandy bridge? Kernel config for i5 2500k sandy bridge?u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoKernel config for i5 2500k sandy bridge?Under processor family I'm trying to decide if I should just use GENERIC X86_64 or should I choose another option for my 2500 i5 sandy bridge cpu?Also I can't locate EDAC in menuconfig.It has an option for Sandy bridge cpus and a search / says its under "device drivers-> EDAC but I don't see it.Thanks
Got my rtl8192du usb wifi working finally! Got my rtl8192du usb wifi working finally!u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoGot my rtl8192du usb wifi working finally!This is a Belkin usb wifi dongle. It has the rtl8192du chip by Realtek.Compiled 6.3.10 kernel and built everything Realtek in.Then downloaded Larry Fingers latest "rtlmaster" drivers for 8192du and built modules.For some reason they wouldn't "make install" and complained about no such file or directory in /lib/modules which WAS there. So I simply copied the 8192fu.ko module and the two rtl.bin files and did a depmod - a and then " modprobe 8192du" and tada!! Everything works!!
What do you use to rip encrypted dvds? What do you use to rip encrypted dvds?u/Ezmiller_2•3 yr. agoWhat do you use to rip encrypted dvds?I usually use makemkv, but would like to be able do so from my server, and then make them accessible only to my network. I don't have internet anymore, other than my phone. Are there some instructions on doing so?
2 wifi dongles on same computer dual boot win 7, Slackware 15? 2 wifi dongles on same computer dual boot win 7, Slackware 15?u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. ago2 wifi dongles on same computer dual boot win 7, Slackware 15?I have a problem.  Couldn't for the life of me get my Belkin (rtl8192du) wifi usb to work on Slackware 15, so I ordered an ALFA awus030acu (rtl8812bu) wifi for Slackware which worked out of box after compiling the new 6.3.10 kernel.Well the ALFA doesn't work on Windows 7, or at least I've had no luck.  I got 2 blue screens and kept crashing Windows on the dual boot.So I'm wondering if it's possible to keep both plugged in on the back and dual boot win7/ Slackware 15?Will each is know which usb to pick up? Will it confuse the oses upon boot?I realize I shouldn't be using Windows 7, but I've been holding off getting a new machine and figured that really I should just boot Slackware 15 and do away with windows.I really can live without Windows at all as all I do is web, youtube, email and stuff and program for a hobby in assembly and C.
New kernel 6.3.10 compiled and still no touchpad! Slackware 15. New kernel 6.3.10 compiled and still no touchpad! Slackware 15.u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoNew kernel 6.3.10 compiled and still no touchpad! Slackware 15.The default kernel works fine.  I get my touchpad and my wifi and everything out of the box.However, I'm a curious person and decided to compile a new kernel.So everything compiles and works fine EXCEPT my synaptics touchpad!I get NOTHING from it with the 6.3.10 kernel, but if I reboot it works perfectly under 5.15.19.I noticed that X doesn't load the synaptics driver from the X11 directory,  but does when I boot off 5.15.19.So I looked at the /dev/input directory and under each kernel, they're different,  which may explain why X under kernel 6.3.10 isn't picking up the touchpad?Under 6.3.10 I only get events* 1 to 6 and "mice" in the /dev/input directory.Under the 5.15.19 kernel it's populated with events 0 to 11 and mice and then mouse0 and mouse1.Would this explain why X isn't sensing the touchpad under the 6.3.10 kernel?What am I messing up?Thanks
Slackware 15, ALFA awu0306acu usb wifi dongle works with kernel 6.3 10 Slackware 15, ALFA awu0306acu usb wifi dongle works with kernel 6.3 10u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoSlackware 15, ALFA awu0306acu usb wifi dongle works with kernel 6.3 10I just wanted to let  anyone interested know that the ALFA awu036acu wifi usb worked for me out of box on Slackware 15 with the new 6.3.10 kernel.I had the hardest time trying to get my old Realtek wifi usb going based in the rtl8192du chip and gave up.So the new wifi dongle has a Realtek 8812bu chip.I didn't test it on the default kernel butI compiled in support for ALL the Realtek chips under NETWORK SETTINGS in 6.3.10 kernel and it worked.I may recompile and take out all the ones I don't think I need for realtek.Also, I didn't have to install firmware or anything,  although I'm sure it's by default already in /lib/firmwareI just clicked on networkmanager in KDE and connected to my wifi access.
Can't get synaptics TouchPad mouse working after compiling new 6.3.10 kernel Slackware 15 Can't get synaptics TouchPad mouse working after compiling new 6.3.10 kernel Slackware 15u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoCan't get synaptics TouchPad mouse working after compiling new 6.3.10 kernel Slackware 15I compiled a new kernel for my Lenovo ideapad with an AMD rysen 5 cpu, etc.I used the 6.3.10 kernel and think I filled in all the options for input devices in the compile such as TouchPad support, i2c, etc.So the kernel fires up normally and I login and then STARTX and it boots to KDE 5 and only my keyboard works, so I have to ctrl all backspace out of X.I noticed in the Xorg.0.log that the x86/synaptics modules aren't loading. However, if I reboot and use the default kernel 5.15.19 generic everything works fine and X of course loads the synaptics modules.Any ideas how to get my synaptics TouchPad going for the 6.3.10 kernel?Is there something I have to do with xorg after compiling a new kernel in order to get the correct Xorg modules to load upon startx?
Why doesn’t Slackware have a bug report / tracking system? Why doesn’t Slackware have a bug report / tracking system?[deleted]•3 yr. agoWhy doesn’t Slackware have a bug report / tracking system?Debian has its email lists, arch has a gitlab, so on and so forth. But when it comes to Slackware, I couldn’t find any sort of bug reporting system.One possible report system is theinfo@slackware.comemail address, but the contents of this address is not archived and therefore not visible to the users.How is it that a software project as big as a distribution has no way of letting the user report bugs in a centralized place?I have heard that Pat looks at linuxquestions.org, but can a forum made by a third party be considered official?
Where does removepkg get the metadata of a package from? Where does removepkg get the metadata of a package from?[deleted]•3 yr. agoWhere does removepkg get the metadata of a package from?After usinginstallpkg, the*.txzfile's contents are extracted and spread across the file system. How doesremovepkgknow where the files are located in order to remove them properly?Is there some backend magic happening, or am I missing something?
So my hdd caddies I ordered for my Slack Server don’t fit my X3550. So my hdd caddies I ordered for my Slack Server don’t fit my X3550.u/Ezmiller_2•3 yr. agoSo my hdd caddies I ordered for my Slack Server don’t fit my X3550.I specifically ordered ones that fit the 2.5” drives, but the back part of the caddies miss the backplate SAS interface by 1/4” or so. I could just grind the end pieces off of the caddies and be fine with it.Is there a place that is good with asking basic hardware server-specific questions that is not on blackout status? I usually ask onr/homeserverbut they are on blackout status.
Nvidia drivers Slackware 15 Nvidia drivers Slackware 15u/medicati0n•3 yr. agoNvidia drivers Slackware 15I'm a total newbie on Slackware. I have no idea.So, how do you install the Nvidia drivers? In fact, how you install things here?I'm sorry if it's a very newbie question, but I really have no idea, I've achieved quite a lot by installing the distro.
Lsusb lists my usb wifi, module loaded and firmware installer but no wlan0? Lsusb lists my usb wifi, module loaded and firmware installer but no wlan0?u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoLsusb lists my usb wifi, module loaded and firmware installer but no wlan0?Under the 5.15.19 kernels I'm trying to get my rtl8192 (chip) usb wifi going.Lsusb lists it and shows RTL8192DU at the end.I downloaded and made the 8192du module and placed the 2 firmware files in the rtlwireless directory under /lib/modules but uponIfconfig -aI get eth0, lo, and something else that's not wlan0Ive rebooted and the 8192du module loads so im assuming linux kernel is seeing my rtl8192du chip and bringing in the module.Hmmmm ....NetworkManager is loading at startup but after bringing up kde the little icon just shows a computer and a ? I believe and not that wireless icon .
Equivalent of "ipconfig /release-release" in slackware 15? Equivalent of "ipconfig /release-release" in slackware 15?[deleted]•3 yr. agoEquivalent of "ipconfig /release-release" in slackware 15?Unfortunately I have a problem with my internet and in windows I always correct it with the commands :ipconfig /releaseipconfig /renewIs there something equivalent or does the same function in slackware 15?thanks you!
About Slackware Current repo database help About Slackware Current repo database help[deleted]•3 yr. agoAbout Slackware Current repo database helpIs there any slackware current repo database where the package dependencies were tracked and monitored aside from Slackel?Take note, it doesn't include Salix because it was point release only.
Gaming on Slackware Gaming on Slackware[deleted]•3 yr. agoGaming on SlackwareCurrently I do everything in Arch, leisure, video games and the performance is wonderful (I would say better than  windows)My question is, can I have the same gaming experience on Slackware?I'm thinking of using Slackware, why? because I have time and it makes me curious, but that, before entering I would like to know if the performance in gaming is good.thanks!! :)
Help me install new kernel with grub.. Help me install new kernel with grub..u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoHelp me install new kernel with grub..Hi.Ok, I have a fresh install of Slackware 15 and everything is working however I want to try and install a new kernel to see how it's done.I went through configuring a new 6.3.9 kernel and don't want to screw up the default generic and huge kernels.Last time (yesterday) I couldn't boot the new 6.3.9 kernel at all and rendered X frozen. Not sure what I did but when I startx it would freeze and I'd have no keyboard or mouse and could only hard shutdown my laptop!Anyways, all new install now.So the generic and huge 5.15.19 kernels seem to share the same initrd.gz file.Do I rename this temporarily while I run the 'mkinitrd' command of my new 6.3.9 kernel?The mkinitrd will spit out a new initrd.gz file in /boot.Or do I just specify the new initrd.gz file with the -o option? Something like 6.3.9.initrd.gz?Will grub know that that initrd.gz belongs to the new 6.3.9 kernel when I run grub-mkconfig?
Any way to see everything printed to the screen during boot? Any way to see everything printed to the screen during boot?u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoAny way to see everything printed to the screen during boot?I'm trying to analyze some things that are printed after booting from grub my selected kernel,  but of course it scrolls too fast.I don't see it in /var/messages or syllogism, etc .Thanks
Installing kernel error upon 'make install'... Fatal: cannot open /etc/lilo.conf? I'm using grub2 Installing kernel error upon 'make install'... Fatal: cannot open /etc/lilo.conf? I'm using grub2u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoInstalling kernel error upon 'make install'... Fatal: cannot open /etc/lilo.conf? I'm using grub2[SOLVED]I recently built a new Linux 6-3.9 kernel and am trying to install it and upon make install got an error about lilo.conf.I'm using grub2 as my bootloader.Is there a way to just manually cp the vmlinux System.map to /boot and then run update-grub?Also do I just copy the vmlinux and System.map or is there an image. File I also copy?Thanks
Rtl8192 wireless USB adapter not working Slackware 15 Rtl8192 wireless USB adapter not working Slackware 15u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoRtl8192 wireless USB adapter not working Slackware 15I'm dual booting an old Windows 7 machine with Slackware 15 and have a Belkin usb wifi dongle.It's chip is the rtl8192du and I found the driver for it.I'm running the huge kernel that came with Slackware 15, but recently downloaded the new 6. Kernel to compile.Anyways, I do an LSMODAnd see the 8192du module but my USB dongle led doesn't light and nothing works.Do I also need to load the firmware?I have the git for rtl8192du-master and did the make, make install for the module but I see a file called RTL8192DUFW.BIN which I'm assuming is the firmware.I did a search and don't see that file installed on my system.Am I supposed to put that file somewhere?Help getting my wireless please.Thanks
Kernel bug in 5.15.118 - amdgpu, I think Kernel bug in 5.15.118 - amdgpu, I thinku/afb_etc•3 yr. agoKernel bug in 5.15.118 - amdgpu, I thinkMyself and at least one user with an AMD GPU on LQ have been unable to start an X server after upgrading the kernel on 15.0 and rebooting. Other users on LQ seem unaffected, so it's a bit of a crapshoot. I had to wget the 5.15.94 kernel from the mirror on slackware.uk and install that again to get a working system. Pat's aware, it seems to be an upstream issue but I don't know if folks on other distros have mentioned it. Basically, if you need the amdgpu driver and you're running 15.0, either don't update or blacklist your kernel packages and install-new 5.15.118 to ensure you keep a working kernel on your machine.
SBo does not mix well with Slackware current? SBo does not mix well with Slackware current?u/HackedcliEntUser•3 yr. agoSBo does not mix well with Slackware current?If it doesn't go well, are there other alternatives?
Where do you get your Linux news? Where do you get your Linux news?u/Ezmiller_2•3 yr. agoWhere do you get your Linux news?I used to just hit up slashdot back in the day, and then whatever happened there happened. Then I went to Reddit and now the Linux community is closed off due to the mobile apps situation.
.bashrc not loading until I startx? .bashrc not loading until I startx?u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. ago.bashrc not loading until I startx?I do a lot of programming at the login prompt without going into X and upon logging in none of my .bashrc entries are loaded.They do load I believe when I start kde though.I made a .inputrc and they would load though.The only problem was that for some reason .inputrc disabled by 'a' key?So where am I supposed to put all my aliases and other things to load immediately when I log in and not in X yet? Thanks
Plugging laptop in while out of X windows makes screen go very dim Plugging laptop in while out of X windows makes screen go very dimu/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoPlugging laptop in while out of X windows makes screen go very dimI've plugged my laptop in a few times while out of X windows (Kde) and my screen automatically dims to 10 I think.Anyways, I have to startx and then I can bring brightness back up in KDE very easily of course.Is there a way to stop this from happening when I plug laptop in out of X, or at least a way to bring brightness back up without being in X windows?Not a big deal, just curious.
Intel Graphics drivers for slackware? Intel Graphics drivers for slackware?u/HackedcliEntUser•3 yr. agoIntel Graphics drivers for slackware?I've been considering on putting Slackware on my machine now after installing arch on it forover a day. Are thereIntel graphical driver packages on slackware? If so, how do I install it so that Slackware can be less pain in the butt?? Just need to know, thanks.
Bought an IBM x3550 on eBay. Came in the mail yesterday. Going to put Slackware on it. Bought an IBM x3550 on eBay. Came in the mail yesterday. Going to put Slackware on it.u/Ezmiller_2•3 yr. agoBought an IBM x3550 on eBay. Came in the mail yesterday. Going to put Slackware on it.Any quirks I should know about with the machine? I got it for like $43 with free shipping on eBay. I think I will have some fun sending the box through my shredder at least.
Slackware 15 64 bit stops at Run /init as init process upon usb install Slackware 15 64 bit stops at Run /init as init process upon usb installu/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoSlackware 15 64 bit stops at Run /init as init process upon usb installI have an older Lenovo g530 laptop that I currently have dual booted with Vista and Slackware 14 which I installed years ago from the DVD burner on a cd.I believe it has 2 gigs ram and a T3500 pentium 2?Anyways I'm attempting to install Slackware 15 and will most likely ditch Vista altogether as I don't need it.So I boot from the USB flash drive which I used to install Slackware to my other laptop a week ago and after booting to install it gets to the kernel command prompt and I just press enter for the HUGE kernel and a few seconds later it stops atRun /init as init processAnd doesn't go anywhereAny clues?I suppose I can just keep using Slackware 14.2...UPDATE***I pressed ctrl c a few times and I'm now at Slackware login where I can partition and setup Slackware.Wish me luck!
Can't boot Vista partition after dual boot with Slackware 15 using grub 2 Can't boot Vista partition after dual boot with Slackware 15 using grub 2u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoCan't boot Vista partition after dual boot with Slackware 15 using grub 2I installed Slackware 15 to an older Lenovo g530 laptop that had Windows Vista on it.Anyways I edited /etc/default/grubAnd added the lineGRUB_DISABLE _OS_PROBER=falseAnd then ranGrub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfgRebootedAnd no VISTA boot option?I don't NEED to boot Vista as I don't use it anymore , but I'm curious how to boot it.
Slackware 15 on HP Stream with Grub launches Windows Boot manager error Slackware 15 on HP Stream with Grub launches Windows Boot manager erroru/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoSlackware 15 on HP Stream with Grub launches Windows Boot manager errorHi.Just installed Slackware 15 64 bit on an older Hp Stream 14 that originally had Vista on it.It has a 29g ssd.I got Slackware installed ok and use grub as the bootloader, but on reboot I'm presented withWINDOWS BOOT MANAGERWindows failed to start; A recent hardware or software change....Esc:uefiIf I press escape I can get to a startup.menu where I press f9 and select grub boot manager.Is there a way to have grub boot manager launch automatically at boot up instead of dealing with the WINDOWS BOOT MANAGER, esc, select grub boot manager.. etc?.Thanks
What bootloader do you use on Slackware? Default (e)lilo, or something else? What bootloader do you use on Slackware? Default (e)lilo, or something else?u/Hob_Goblin88•3 yr. agoWhat bootloader do you use on Slackware? Default (e)lilo, or something else?I generally use grub, but what about you guys?
What is the point of using generic kernel today? What is the point of using generic kernel today?u/sdns575•3 yr. agoWhat is the point of using generic kernel today?Hi,I noticed that I generally use huge kernel instead of generic version. So:Why use generic kernel today?What is the real purpose of generic kernel?Thank you in advance
Tips for daily-driving Slackware? (I'll apply them ASAP) Tips for daily-driving Slackware? (I'll apply them ASAP)u/HackedcliEntUser•3 yr. agoTips for daily-driving Slackware? (I'll apply them ASAP)Any tips for daily-driving Slackware? I found it to be pretty special honestly. I've been playing around with it for a VM, and i've been recently thinking of putting it into actual hardware. Any tips before I do this?
Problem with Slackware64 15 in VM Problem with Slackware64 15 in VMu/sdns575•3 yr. agoProblem with Slackware64 15 in VMHey there,I'm trying Slackware64 15.0 in a VM (KVM) and I selected XFCE as DE. When I run startx XFCE starts but I can't do anything..mouse and keyboard are frozen while I can log in via ssh.This is the first time I got this problem under a VM.This is a fresh install of Slackware64 15.0. All updates are applied. Host system is debian testing.I could solve the problem?Thank you in advanceEdit: problem solved. I don't know why but after a reboot  lilo did load the previous kernel version that is not present in /boot dir. So I updated LILO and generated a new initrd and worked. Thank you for your time
Gaming in Slackware? Gaming in Slackware?u/HackedcliEntUser•3 yr. agoGaming in Slackware?Hi, I'm wondering if you can do gaming in Slackware. Not just casual gaming, we're talking games from Steam (not the games with anti-cheat). Is it possible?
Tip: install open-vm-tools in VMWare to make acpid work Tip: install open-vm-tools in VMWare to make acpid worku/Yubao-Liu•3 yr. agoTip: install open-vm-tools in VMWare to make acpid workSpent two days to figure out why menu itemVirtual machine->Shutdowndidn't make Slackware enter run level 0:  you must installopen-vm-toolsfrom SlackBuilds.org.sudo chmod a+x /etc/rc.d/rc.acpid sudo /etc/rc.d/rc.acpid start  sudo slpkg update sudo slpkg install open-vm-tools sudo chmod a+x /etc/rc.d/rc.vmtoolsd for i in 2 3 4 5; do sudo ln -s /etc/rc.d/rc.vmtoolsd /etc/rc.d/rc$i.d/S01vmtoolsd; done for i in 0 1 6  ; do sudo ln -s /etc/rc.d/rc.vmtoolsd /etc/rc.d/rc$i.d/K01vmtoolsd; done sudo /etc/rc.d/rc.vmtoolsd start
How does Slackware boot? How does Slackware boot?u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoHow does Slackware boot?I'm wondering after grub (that's the bootloader I'm using) comes up and I press the default 'slackware 15' option what is loaded from there first.For example, is the kernel loaded right away?What loads the kernel?Then how are the /etc/rc.d scripts all run?Does the kernel call them or do they run BEFORE the kernel?Is there a good tutorial/book on all this?Thanks I'm just curious and am also a rusty old c programmer!
Changed terminal fonts in /etc/rc.d/rc.fonts file.... but Changed terminal fonts in /etc/rc.d/rc.fonts file.... butu/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoChanged terminal fonts in /etc/rc.d/rc.fonts file.... butOk. Sorry to post so much today but I had this thing here.I finally got /etc/rc.d/rc.fonts to load 'setfont' however it loads just before I log in and not from the getgo after the penguins?Is there a way to get the fonts to load from when the penguins show up?It's not a biggie, but I'm just curious.Also, I had to 'chmod -xr' (I think that was the command) the /etc/rc.d/rc.font file and it finally worked.Is that something you normally have to do with rc files? I noticed a lot of the rc files in /etc/rc.d are not executable but are bash scripts.I thought you only need #!/bin/bash at the top?Thanks
Installing Slackware on 2 harddrive laptop. SSD and hdd. Where do I put grub? Installing Slackware on 2 harddrive laptop. SSD and hdd. Where do I put grub?u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoInstalling Slackware on 2 harddrive laptop. SSD and hdd. Where do I put grub?I have a Lenovo IdeaPad 330s that has a ssd with Windows 10 and then a 1tb hdd.I want to install Slackware on the 30 gigs of the hdd which is no problem.Do I put grub on the hdd or sdd?
How do I change the console font in Slackware? The console out of X windows. How do I change the console font in Slackware? The console out of X windows.u/apooroldinvestor•3 yr. agoHow do I change the console font in Slackware? The console out of X windows.I'm trying to change the default console font to make it larger before I startx.I heard it changes it to small because of the frame buffer or something?I changed the line in /etc/rc.d/rc.font to a font in / usr/share/kbd/consolefonts but it's still the same.The rc.font file originally has 'setfont -v' in it.I commented it out and put in 'setfont ter-v28b'Rebooted and had same small fontThanks
Does Slackware really not have official git/svn/cvs repository? Does Slackware really not have official git/svn/cvs repository?u/Yubao-Liu•3 yr. agoDoes Slackware really not have official git/svn/cvs repository?Slackbuilds has official git repo, but I find only Eric’s unofficial Slackware git repos athttps://git.slackware.nl/current/, I’m very curious about whether Patrick uses any VCS to develop Slackware.
sddm patch required by fish shell users sddm patch required by fish shell usersu/Yubao-Liu•3 yr. agosddm patch required by fish shell usershttps://salsa.debian.org/qt-kde-team/3rdparty/sddm/-/commit/aab1d31c284274f7338623607da1a99bb06b119bhttps://github.com/sddm/sddm/issues/1592#issuecomment-1565455750https://github.com/sddm/sddm/commit/cf65e99eb8abfe2ee1ef7e2f7dc43862e83bf0abI checked repology.org, all Linux distributions and BSDs except Debian/Ubuntu/Fedora/openSUSE don’t have that patch, maybe Slackware can become No. 5 to fix that:-)Could anybody notify Slackware KDE maintainers to apply the patch? It’s also OK to just grab latest version fromhttps://github.com/sddm/sddmdevelop branch.
How many packages do you install from slackbuild out of full install? How many packages do you install from slackbuild out of full install?u/sdns575•3 yr. agoHow many packages do you install from slackbuild out of full install?Hi,Slackware is shipped with a fullset of packages. Some software is not included and need to build packages from slackbuilds.org.How many packages do you need outside the full install?Currently I use 62 packages from slackbuilds.org for qemu, virt-manager, libreoffice, postgresql, php-pgsql, geany, bluefish and other.What about you?Thank you in advance.
Slackware users are happy users! Slackware users are happy users!u/cduston44•3 yr. agoSlackware users are happy users!https://lunduke.substack.com/p/the-least-happy-computer-users-those?fbclid=IwAR3MisK6wsNkx_Q8pNWMmCfeCRlOCPzy0vPW870Kw7EChoc4BQqLY9yfyxE
Do you use Slackware for working purpose? Do you use Slackware for working purpose?u/sdns575•3 yr. agoDo you use Slackware for working purpose?Hi,There is someone that use Slackware for production purpose? I mean small or medium company.I used it in the past and worked very well and I've never had such a pleasant feeling about administering a system with Slackware Linux.During years I used debian (since 4 to 11) CentOS/AlmaLinux (since 6 to 9) and some Ubuntu LTS. OpenSUSE tried only in VM.Do you use Slackware for working purpose or only for fun?Thank you in advance
Xfce battery charge indicator keeps popping up when battery is full and plugged into wall power. Xfce battery charge indicator keeps popping up when battery is full and plugged into wall power.u/Hob_Goblin88•3 yr. agoXfce battery charge indicator keeps popping up when battery is full and plugged into wall power.Dunno if it's a Slackware problem or a general xfce annoyance, but it happens on my laptop with Slackware 15.0 install. The pop ups keep switching between charging and fully charged every 1 or 2 seconds.
Slackware compatibility with an AMD Ryzen 7 4700U ZEN 2 as found in a ThinkPad e15 gen 2 AMD Slackware compatibility with an AMD Ryzen 7 4700U ZEN 2 as found in a ThinkPad e15 gen 2 AMDu/kyleW_ne•3 yr. agoSlackware compatibility with an AMD Ryzen 7 4700U ZEN 2 as found in a ThinkPad e15 gen 2 AMDHi,I once used Slackware Linux back in the Pentium 4 days and have grown dissatisfied with most of the big Linux distros and find myself much more interested in OpenBSD and FreeBSD nowadays, but as anyone who has used one of those knows they have less than stellar WIFI support and other hardware incompatibilities and play games significantly worse with no wine in OpenBSD and wine as a second class citizen in FreeBSD.  I was hoping the latest release of Slackware might be a best of both worlds kind of situation but was curious how its now 2 year old kernel at 5.15 LTS would work with a ZEN 2 laptop?Thanks in advance, particularly if anyone has used that processor/gpu or model laptop!
grub can't find vmlinuz? grub can't find vmlinuz?[deleted]•3 yr. agogrub can't find vmlinuz?The laptop is a Dell Inspiron 14 ( 3451 ).  Created the EFI boot partition as well when setting it up.  BTW is the EFI boot partition really necessary?  Any downsides to not creating it?  After the system booted up I did the whole slackpkg updates.After rebooting the laptop when I tried to load the OS I get the following:Loading Linux 5.15.19 ... error: file `\boot\vmlinuz-huge-5.15.19' not found. Loading initial ramdisk ... error: you need to load the kernel first.So the kernel didn't load from what it says.  I went online and found some directions as to how to go about loading said kernel.Went into the grub command-line and did :grub> ls (hd0) (hd1) (hd1,gpt3) (hd1,gpt2) (hd1,gpt1) set root=(hd1,gpt3) linux /boot/vmlinuz-huge-5.15.94 root=/dev/sda3The instructions I found online says to run the initrd command and reference the initrd.img file in the /boot directory but the only entries in the /boot directory aregrub> initrd /boot/init (tab) Possible files are: initrd-tree/ initrd.gzIf I enter the boot command the system without specifying the initrd, Slackware goes into a kernel panic!
Slackware Graphics Glitch Slackware Graphics Glitch[deleted]•3 yr. agoSlackware Graphics GlitchI noticed this graphics glitch on slackware current. I used the live-cd version.system tray icons on XFCE does not refreshWebkit/Blink browser hangs when the window compositor is enabledXFCE screenshooter rendered a totally black screen when screenshot by selecting region while the compositor is enabledAlpha channels not work, replaced by black background instead of transparent one especially if the widget has rounded corners or curvy sidesI tried the following:Reinstall the GTK+3 - DOESN'T WORKRemove xorg.conf - DOESN'T WORKReinstall cairo, librsvg, and libpng - DOESN'T WORKReinstall xorg, mesa, and libdrm - DOESN'T WORKReplacing xfce-panel executables with Debian Sid - DOESN'T WORKHowever I tried the same configuration on Debian Sid live-cd. No graphics glitch occurred even both have same configuration. How ironic that those graphics glitch does not exists on GTK+2 build Desktop Environment.Any ideas how to fix this graphics glitch?UPDATE: This problem was solved by unset the XLIB_SKIP_ARGB_VISUALS
AlienBob's blog post with advice of how to setup TigerVNC server on 15.0, -current. Nicely done! AlienBob's blog post with advice of how to setup TigerVNC server on 15.0, -current. Nicely done!u/ddmayne•3 yr. agoAlienBob's blog post with advice of how to setup TigerVNC server on 15.0, -current. Nicely done!https://alien.slackbook.org/blog/challenges-with-tigervnc-in-slackware-15-0/
OpenDBX alternative for Slackware 15? OpenDBX alternative for Slackware 15?u/cyranix•3 yr. agoOpenDBX alternative for Slackware 15?I have a mailserver which I am trying to keep as database oriented as possible (several reasons, but mostly because it allows me to handle remote updates a specific way that doesn't require me to modify text files which is going to result in me having to change file permissions), but with Slackware 15, OpenDBX will not compile due to dynamic exeptions in the code, which cannot be overriden with -Wno-dynamic-exception-spec anymore. Because of this, opendkim can't be compiled with ODBC support, so I'm about to be relegated to using text files again.Anyone have a better solution to getting OpenDKIM to support (MariaDB) database?
Why I Loved Slackware in 2009 and can't stand using it in 2023 Why I Loved Slackware in 2009 and can't stand using it in 2023u/bytheclouds•3 yr. agoWhy I Loved Slackware in 2009 and can't stand using it in 2023I'm a bit of a distrohopper - not on my main PC, but I have the "luxury" of having literally dozens of older boxes laying around my house and I've tinkered with a lot of distros since 2009, when I went full Linux.For the past few years I've been thinking what changed in Slackware to turn it from my favorite distro once into the one that is immensely frustrating for me to use - and I don't think anything has changed about Slackware itself.The concept of "slack" in "Slackware" stems from you not having to install anything - it has you covered with all that software it provides. But am I wrong or is that a really "mid-2000s" thing to want? As Internet speeds grew, it became quicker and easier to just get everything you want from repos - not stuff preselected by the distro either, the stuff YOU prefer.And you can use Slackware like that - build up from base system, install package by package with Slackbuilds, tracking dependencies yourself. I know, because I have built my OS like that in the past. And the results can be great! But Slackware fights you on that. It recommends you install a whole lot of useless crap, it doesn't provide any tools to get rid of unneeded dependencies automatically when you delete something you no longer need (sbopkg does, but slackpkg doesn't). It's a good learning experience, but it's frustrating and hard to do - especially compared to most modern distros, where you can get a minimal system with the selection of packages of your choosing in minutes.I think Slackware may still have it's place somewhere with limited internet speed/access (similar to endlessOS, perhaps). Personally, I just can't really justify using it any more - between either accepting a bloated and arbitrary default package selection, going through the long and frustrating process of deselecting individual packages during installation or building from base system, which feels like working against the flow of what Slackware wants to be.
So let’s say Pat called it quits and Linux suddenly went closed-source. So let’s say Pat called it quits and Linux suddenly went closed-source.u/Ezmiller_2•3 yr. agoSo let’s say Pat called it quits and Linux suddenly went closed-source.Or something crazy happened to Linus and the kernel devs. Would you jump to BSD? Or would you be affected at all? Obviously there a million and one things in place to prevent this from happening. So I’m not uninformed.
atlasVPN on slackware atlasVPN on slackwareu/danixMCdanix•3 yr. agoatlasVPN on slackwareHello everyone,I'm crossaskingfrom linuxquestions, I hope it's ok.https://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/slackware-14/trying-to-use-atlas-vpn-on-slackware-4175723037/I'm trying to make atlasvpn work on Slackware, I'm on slackware64-current, and I was gifted a 3year subscription to atlasvpn. It's advertised as working on linux, but of course they only provide .deb packages.after exploding the package there's only 2 executables, a client and a daemon, and a couple of systemd files, a .service and a .socketWhat I can't understand is how to attach the socket to the daemon, when I run the daemon it exits complaining that there are no sockets available. Here's the output:2023-03-17T09:41:24.147+0100    FATAL   unexpected number of active sockets     {"sockets": 0}Do you guys have any idea? I've never worked with systemd, so I don't know how to "translate" it to Slackware.The only thing that came to mind is to execute the daemon with inetd, but I don't really know how to set it up.Any kind of suggestion is really appreciated.Thanks a lot in advance
Suddenly audit is running, please help Suddenly audit is running, please helpu/hymie0•3 yr. agoSuddenly audit is running, please helpI honestly don't know what I did.  But all of a sudden, I'm seeing these messages in my /var/log/messages -- this is literally the first message of its kindFeb 27 10:11:04 alfred kernel: [20447642.756770] audit: type=1326 audit(1677510664.525:2): auid=4294967295 uid=33 gid=33 ses=4294967295 pid=14632 comm="sshd" exe="/usr/local/sbin/sshd" sig=31 arch=c000003e syscall=230 compat=0 ip=0x7f0ea88d9726 code=0x0and I honestly have no idea what I did to turn this on.  But now I can't ssh to my machine.I don't have any obvious audit programs running:alfred-pts/0:~% ps ax | grep -i audit 14722 pts/0    S+     0:00 grep -i auditCan somebody help me figure out how I turned on auditing and/or how I can turn it off?===I don't know if it's related, but I'm also suddenly seeing these messages:show: setlocale failed, check your LC_ALL, LC_CTYPE, and LANG environment variables, continuing...even though I think I have those variables set:LANG=en_US.UTF8 LC_ALL=en_US.UTF8 LC_COLLATE=C
nvidia-legacy-340 drivers nvidia-legacy-340 driversu/se7enOneOne•3 yr. agonvidia-legacy-340 driversYes, I know its old. The nvidia-legacy-340-driver and the nvidia-legacy-340-kernel-module from sbopkg build and install correctly. Tower specs: intel i3-2100 3.10ghz, 8gb ram, evga 8400gs 1gb.
So what’s your view on TPM and/or Linus adding support for MS’s Pluton to the kernel? So what’s your view on TPM and/or Linus adding support for MS’s Pluton to the kernel?u/Ezmiller_2•3 yr. agoSo what’s your view on TPM and/or Linus adding support for MS’s Pluton to the kernel?I’ll be honest…prior to the requirements for Windows 11 being announced, I had never heard of a TPM. Not sure if that makes me weak or just ignorant.Someone told me yesterday that Linux is the worst in security, I assume because Linux doesn’t force you to use encrypted disks, Secure Boot, and I forgot the other. Something about immutable root? Does that sound right?I never replied because my immediate thought was…Linux doesn’t use .exe or .msi files. Add to that we don’t install software by downloading software directly from the developer and maybe not pay attention to the url. I also didn’t reply becauser/Linuxseems full of MS fanboys who want to implement the MS way of doing things. I could be wrong about that.
I just broke my installation upgrading the system I just broke my installation upgrading the systemu/DoritosFun959•3 yr. agoI just broke my installation upgrading the systemI recently wanted to use an "old" (like 2 years old) laptop i have to experiment with Linux and stuff, i really liked Slackware and installed in the Laptop (15.0 Version), it worked fine, and since i wanted to install some things from the repository, I've learned how to setup the slackpkg mirror. After that i proceeded to make the next command, "slackpkg update" and "slackpkg upgrade-all".Eventually, I rebooted the system and i encountered the surprise that KDE plasma, and almost everything got broken, like, i couldn't setup KDE again with the script in the pkgtool program, and "nmtui" stopped working and more things like that.the "slackpkg" command and everything that you can catalog as simple terminal programs (vim, cat, etc.) work fine, but for some reason i can't start KDE or connect to my wifi.Is there a way to fix this problem or i could just reinstall the entire OS and not touching slackpkg ever again?
installpkg error on Slackware install installpkg error on Slackware installu/Gustek_•3 yr. agoinstallpkg error on Slackware installGood morning,When I try to install the system (all categories except KDE and XFCE), some 10 packages from the A category install correctly and then all the other packages fail with something likeinstallpkg errorFatal Error: either your disks have run out of space, the package is corrupted or there was an error when writing the diskI have three partitions (+ SWAP):/of 20G,/usr/localof 20G and/homeof 70G.What could I do? I checked, the ISO I use wasn't corrupted neither during download nor during write on my USB disk.
GPG error even after disabling gpg and MD5 GPG error even after disabling gpg and MD5u/Imjustsomenormalguy•3 yr. agoGPG error even after disabling gpg and MD5edit: solved by editing /etc/slackpkg/slackpkg.conf to where "CHECKGPG" was off.i dont know what is happening but my clock is set right i have tried every single mirror heck ive even deleted the /root/.gnupg folder and ran slackpkg upgrade gpg, i do not know why its failing with the same error everytime i try i a fix, ive reinstalled and that didn't help i do not know  what to do now!
Slackware64 15.0 with cwm Slackware64 15.0 with cwmu/se7enOneOne•3 yr. agoSlackware64 15.0 with cwm
What setup do you have Slackware or Linux on? What setup do you have Slackware or Linux on?u/Ezmiller_2•3 yr. agoWhat setup do you have Slackware or Linux on?I’m running MX, Win10, and Slackware on my Thinkpad T430. Mostly Slackware. i7-3something, 16gb ram, 2 SSDs plus mSata SSD, Nvidia 5400m. Bought it second hand on eBay for $219 two years ago. It still had the original HDD and battery. Got that replaced a while ago. I bought it to take some PLC classes from my local college, but then had some expenses, so that didn’t pan out.Suse TW whatever the current version is on my HTPC. Phenom II X6, 16gb ram, an SSD for OS, and two big HDDs for storage. Nvidia 1650 4gb. I forget the brand.This build started out as an Hp series desktop that I wanted to use for mining. But the cooling wasn’t enough and the fans were running too loudly to use. So I jumped on Newegg and bought an Asrock AM3+ board that had USB3. I also ordered a no-name case and some Fractural fans. I wasn’t paying attention and bought the 3-pin fans and not 4-pin. Big difference in noise. I then upgraded the CPU from an X4 to an X6 and have enjoyed it so far. I thought about getting an Fx-6300 since I skipped that entire series, but then I would have another cpu laying around and I always have read that the Phenom was better or at least kept up with the FX.My gaming rig runs Fedora 37 and Win11. Ryzen 3700x, 2060 12gb, I think 32gb ram. A few SSDs I snagged before prices went up for lumber in the states.I have a Sun Fire V125 that I’ve converted into a V240. It’s currently got Splack 12.1 rc9 installed. I want to get Bonslack 14.2 installed but I’m doing some remodeling, so it’s taken a back seat till I get time and a proper environment for it. This has been my project for the past year, learning about Sun and how servers run, and what a serial port is used for, other than saying you have a serial port. I’ve gotten some very helpful tips here and onr/Solaris. Other places….lol not so much.Finally my Thinkcentre M72E SFF. I acquired it when my workplace needed new PC for our lumber saws. They all used Thinkcentre A55s I think. Two with the orange and blue P4 logo and one with the jade and blue P4 logo. They all had side-riser PCI or PCI-E cards with an Allen-Bradley PCIDS-1784 controller card. AB never updated the drivers for the card beyond Win98, so I had a heck of a time getting them to work in XP on new machines. Read the instructions knucklehead! Anyway, this all happened during Covid and I had to make a two hour drive to get machines that had space or the right slot and generic XP drivers. I then thankfully grabbed all software off the saw manufacture’s site and have multiple backups in case things ever go south on us. The machines I bought started dying in 2020-2021, due to extreme heat and cold, with lots of sawdust. Thankfully my work decided to hear me out and upgrade their equipment. The one machine still uses XP, but that’s because it’s not my choice and we had a bad experience with automated hardware. Picture a machine with lots of safety features for the operator, but almost none for itself.Dang, maybe I should write another paragraph.
Recommend a good book for learning Latex? Recommend a good book for learning Latex?u/Ezmiller_2•3 yr. agoRecommend a good book for learning Latex?I don’t care if it’s free or not. I’m just looking to start using it. Also eMacs. Maybe vi/m as well.
Slackware and UUID Slackware and UUIDu/sdns575•3 yr. agoSlackware and UUIDHey there,Why Slackware 15.0 does not use UUID in fstab instead of devices hy default?I found using UUID more useful.Thank you in advance
JupyterLab and dependencies JupyterLab and dependenciesu/cyranix•3 yr. agoJupyterLab and dependenciesSo, recently I've had need to installjupyterlaband its dependencies on a home server I set up for the purposes of...well lets not worry about that... But in the course of writing a nice long script to handle downloading and installing all of the slackbuilds and dependencies, I ran across a rather interesting set of cyclic dependencies involvingwheel(which optionally can usepython3-keyring, which requireswheel) andpython3-twistedwhich has dependencies which requirecryptography, which usespython3-twisted... So I was just wondering if anyone would like me to organize these scripts (possibly into a single script) which handles going through and downloading all these scripts and running their slackbuilds... If nobody is interested I'm not going to put the effort in, but if anyone has had interest in running jupyterlab on a server and doesn't want the task of manually installing all this stuff, it's probably a trivial task at this point for me to combine this stuff together. Just testing the waters, let me know what you guys think...
Missing python libs with SBO Missing python libs with SBOu/jcarnat•3 yr. agoMissing python libs with SBOHello,I'm trying to compile libraries/bamf using slackware-current and SBO tools. But whether I use sbopkg or sboinstall, the bamf compilation fails and stops saying:checking for python... /usr/bin/python checking for gtester2xunit dependencies... no configure: error: You need to install python-libxslt1 and python-libxml2 Failures:   bamf: bamf.SlackBuild return non-zeroWhat I don't understand is that I think I have the libraries installed:# ls /var/log/packages/*{xslt,xml}* /var/log/packages/kxmlgui-5.102.0-x86_64-1 /var/log/packages/kxmlrpcclient-5.102.0-x86_64-1 /var/log/packages/libxml2-2.9.14-x86_64-1 /var/log/packages/libxslt-1.1.36-x86_64-1 /var/log/packages/poxml-22.12.1-x86_64-1 /var/log/packages/python-lxml-4.6.3-x86_64-2alienWhat I am missing?Thanks.
What kind of wireless routers do you guys recommend? What kind of wireless routers do you guys recommend?u/Ezmiller_2•3 yr. agoWhat kind of wireless routers do you guys recommend?I bought a Netgear AC1750 less than a year ago, and it somehow got hot or something, and now my router won't give a good connection via wifi. Whereas if I go wired, it's only slightly more reliable. It keeps switching the signals off and on. So I wondered if any of you have a better recommendation. $200 for a wireless router seems kind of a lot to me, but the last time I had bought one was a Linksys wireless G. So that's what I get for using the Best Buy recommendation.
Location of Diagnostic Tools Location of Diagnostic Toolsu/DicerosAK•3 yr. agoLocation of Diagnostic ToolsI am running Slackware 15+ for quite some time and it's been rock solid stable, but recently crashed after approx 40 days of uptime.  The machine is lightly loaded and basically servers as file server and vpn gateway for my LAN.The machine was awake and fans whirring, but no video and network output or other signs of life.After reboot, \var\log\messages didn't provide any meaningful diagnostics.What other log files or diagnostics commands might provide useful information for diagnosing events like this?Thanks for any help you all can provide!
No Sound Device (Thinkpad T15) No Sound Device (Thinkpad T15)[deleted]•3 yr. agoNo Sound Device (Thinkpad T15)UPDATE: This has been solved. See the bottom of this post and comments if you've got the same issue.I recently got a Thinkpad T15 (Gen 2) in a really good deal and I just installed Slackware. Everything works great except for audio -pavucontroldoesn't detect any output devices andaplay -lprintsno soundcards found....I wondered if maybe this was a problem that was fixed in -current so I reinstalled, but the problem persists.I checked the Slackware docs, which had help for generic audio problems and Intel HDA problems. It seems that my sound card uses the Intel HDA chipset - it's got a Realtek card - so I tried the docs' solutions but couldn't fix the problem.Does anyone know what might be the problem here? Any help would be appreciated!Thanks.UPDATE: I've resolved the issue. It seems Slackware didn't come with the sof firmware, which was essential for my soundcard to work. I downloaded the firmware from thethesofproject/sof-binGithub page and followed the instructions on installation. The process was fairly painless. I rebooted and found my card was now being detected, although audio still didn't work, so I just ran KDE and let the desktop environment do its "just works" configuration, which, unsurprisingly, just worked. Everything works great now. Thanks for all the help.
Slackware Recommendations and Best Practices Slackware Recommendations and Best Practicesu/KingOfJankLinux•3 yr. agoSlackware Recommendations and Best PracticesSo I want to get back to my roots.Roots: 10 years ago I started using proteus 1.0 on a x86 single core laptop, classic via c7m cpu.And at the time I wasn’t much of a linux fan, but just a user. Later on down the line I started using Linux more often again, Debian, Ubuntu, Suse, etc. and I even work in the IT sector for a company that develops an Ubuntu fork as a systems engineer.To my inquiry though, I want to setup my server at home with Slackware, 2x Xeon e5-2609v2, 32gb ddr3 ram and 2x 4tb hdds with hardware raid 1, with an 8gb boot ssd or an 80gb boot hdd. Are there any recommendations or Tipps y’all can give me to understand the Slackware init system and other components that might be useful, best practices?And the use case is nfs, web server docker host and qemu/kvm host. (Later on I might get a 18tb drive to do a software raid 0 with zfs)Along with some modifications such as the 6.1 kernel, just for some giggles.
kernel panic kernel panic[deleted]•3 yr. agokernel panicHello. I have just updated kernel and some other stuff and ran eliloconfig and init 6. After this for some reason init is unable to mount my root partition. Mount returns message that mounting /dev/sda2 on /mnt failed, cause there is no such device. I tried to mount it manually and there is the same error. I checked via "ls /dev/sda?" and all my devices are presented here. Also bootloader states that there are no kernel modules found for Linux. Slackware is strange. Now I suppose I am in initramfs or something. How can I resolve this?Edit: fstab is clean. fsck for /dev/sda2 is clean too.
clean-system clean-system[deleted]•3 yr. agoclean-systemHello. I just have done slackpkg clean-system and it just deleted bunch of useful packages which I installed from slackbuild -_- I read that it deletes only obsolete packages or packages from third party repositories, but I don't quite understand what is the point of this. Slackpkg doesn't handle dependencies so how can I understand whether I can delete package or not, because even if I don't need it personally it might be needed by some other packages. Can someone explain me this obscure command, please?
Can slackware be as small and secure as alpine? Can slackware be as small and secure as alpine?u/Tgamerydk•3 yr. agoCan slackware be as small and secure as alpine?Is it possible to make slackware as small as alpine is? Can it be used as docker images? Can it be so small that it can be run from ram (diskless mode in alpine) and embedded use cases
Docker Image: Slackware build essential Docker Image: Slackware build essentialu/andy5995•3 yr. agoDocker Image: Slackware build essentialI've created a Dockerfile for this atdocker-slackware-build-essential. The image is pushed from the repo to Docker Hub.This image aims to provide the essential tools for building software in a Slackware environment. It can be used as a service container in a GitHub action.
Is there any way to query status of all packages? Is there any way to query status of all packages?[deleted]•3 yr. agoIs there any way to query status of all packages?Hello. I stumbled upon a problem that stellarium flickers when I am trying to use it. I suppose that some graphics packages are missing from official repositories. Is there any way to query status of all packages from official repository so I could install missing ones?
Active HDMI connection while X is disabled Active HDMI connection while X is disabled[deleted]•3 yr. agoActive HDMI connection while X is disabledI connected my laptop to a TV via HDMI using xrandr. Then I ran init 6 and somehow TV was able to show me all process including ELILO screen startup message (when Linux is not even loaded). How is it even possible? I thought that X server is responsible for all this.
Wayland an X11 Wayland an X11[deleted]•3 yr. agoWayland an X11Why do I need to install Wayland to run alacrity and Firefox when I am using xorg?
Nerd fonts Nerd fonts[deleted]•3 yr. agoNerd fontsHello. I have just installed slak and turns out that there are no nerd fonts in repos. How can I install them? And the same thing with chromium and drun. Thank you in advance.
Is there even any difference between slackware and LFS? Is there even any difference between slackware and LFS?u/Tgamerydk•3 yr. agoIs there even any difference between slackware and LFS?Except the initial building part, isnt LFS and slackware kind of same? Both require compiling packages from source and no dependencymanagement.
Bspwm installation Bspwm installation[deleted]•3 yr. agoBspwm installationI have recently installed Slackware, and want to use bspwm as my WM. I have connected to wifi, selected a mirror for slackpkg to use, and updated.I cannot find a tutorial on how to install bspwm and haven't  been able to figure it out on my own. Could anyone tell me what commands to run and/or what to do in order to install bspwm.Btw have done it in Debian before. I know how to deal with ~/.config and all that. I don't understand Slackware though.
Is there a way to read all the startup stuff from when I first boot up? Is there a way to read all the startup stuff from when I first boot up?u/Ezmiller_2•3 yr. agoIs there a way to read all the startup stuff from when I first boot up?I'll sometimes see errors or something, but not ones that prevent me from booting. Something like "wrong efi..." I don't know what is after 'efi' because my laptop boots so fast. I just would like to see what the boot log is, or what file I would need to go to read.
[Q] Gnome on Slackware -current (?) [Q] Gnome on Slackware -current (?)u/bsdooby•3 yr. ago[Q] Gnome on Slackware -current (?)Is anyone able to run Gnome on Slackware? There is supposedly an easy way to install it (user reddog83 on LQ;https://reddoglinux.ddns.net/linux/gnome/43.x/). However, the installed DE crashes...
TigerVNC always starts KDE Plasma session TigerVNC always starts KDE Plasma sessionu/chesheersmile•3 yr. agoTigerVNC always starts KDE Plasma sessionSo I managed to install TigerVNC on my spare machine and whenever I runvncserverit starts KDE Plasma session.At first I had nothing in my~/.vnc/config. I tried to addsession=i3there, tried to addsession=i3to/etc/tigervnc/vncserver-config-defaultsand/etc/tigervnc/vncserver-config-mandatory. Nothing changed. It's always KDE Plasma.Now, documentation says that tigervnc searches for session.desktopfiles in/usr/share/xsessions. So I tried to renameplasma.desktopso it would be inaccessible for TigerVNC. Nothing changed. Looks like it doesn't use/usr/share/xsessions.So how do I make it start desired session?P.S. I use Slackware 15 if it helps. My~/.vnc/configfile is like this (I have nothing in/etc/tigervpnconfig files):session=i3 geometry=1920x1080
how to run kernel 2.x or 3.x how to run kernel 2.x or 3.xu/BelgianHealthMinistr•3 yr. agohow to run kernel 2.x or 3.xCan I still use kernel 2.x on slackware?don't ask me why, it's linux. i HAVE to do thisi would even be okay with 4.1, at least i can use my rx 460 on thereif i told you WHY, redditors will do that thing where instead of answering you they tell you what (they think) would be better, now i obviously know that using it is a bad idea already, i still want to do it, its linuxits the last distro with that kind of flexability, i have to do this man
How does slackware compare to crux? How does slackware compare to crux?u/Tgamerydk•3 yr. agoHow does slackware compare to crux?Arent both the same except the fact that slackpkg is a thing in slackware?
How long does it usually take for a kernel upgrade (current) How long does it usually take for a kernel upgrade (current)u/OwningLiberals•3 yr. agoHow long does it usually take for a kernel upgrade (current)It's not a big deal but considering linux is now on the 6.1 series and current is stuck on 5.19.17 for whatever reason I was just curious about it.
Problems with Slackware 15 and xfce 4.16 (Sleep Time) Problems with Slackware 15 and xfce 4.16 (Sleep Time)u/DoritosFun959•3 yr. agoProblems with Slackware 15 and xfce 4.16 (Sleep Time)Salutations.I'm using Slackware in my second PC with xfce 4.16, but, since a while now im having a problem with it.I dont know why, but, when i leave my PC inactive (Watching Youtube) the PC goes suspended (obviously, because of the time before sleep).The problem starts when i go into the Power Management section of the Options menu of Xfce; I set the time before sleep as "Never" or "4 hours" and, even with the two options, the PC gets into Sleep mode after, like, 10-15 minutes, like before the setting was changed.I tried to reboot and change it many times, but it doesnt change anything.Can you please help me with the issue?
libc_nonshared.a is missing, what package contains that file ? libc_nonshared.a is missing, what package contains that file ?u/lidgl4991•3 yr. agolibc_nonshared.a is missing, what package contains that file ?I want to compile stuffs and I'm getting this complaint/usr/bin/ld: cannot find /usr/lib64/libc_nonshared.a. What possible package contains that file ? I already have glibc etc... thanks.
XFCE 4.18 on Slackware 15 XFCE 4.18 on Slackware 15u/EugeneNine•3 yr. agoXFCE 4.18 on Slackware 15XFCE 4.18 from -current appears to build and run fine on 15 if you don't want to run -current.
Slackware64 15 "fluidsynth: warning: Failed to set thread to high priority". Slackware64 15 "fluidsynth: warning: Failed to set thread to high priority".u/globetrotterdk•3 yr. agoSlackware64 15 "fluidsynth: warning: Failed to set thread to high priority".Slackware newbie. I would like to start using Slackware for my at this point basic music creation needs. Slackware has had a lot of changes under the hood, including the addition of Pipewire, which I am extremely happy about. However, this also means that a lot of old documentation is probably obsolete. My box has the following:CPU: AMD Ryzen 5 4600G with Radeon Graphics (12) @ 3.700GHzGPU: AMD ATI Renoir...so again not sure how much of old documentation is relevant, but I have taken a look at Alien Bob'spostand followed his advice for elilo:If you use elilo, open /boot/efi/EFI/Slackware/elilo.conf and add “threadirqs” to the value of the “append = ” keywordThis hasn't helped. In general, I am fairly confused by this point and could use any advice available.In Ubuntu, I would run something like the following:$ fluidsynth -a alsa -m alsa_seq -g 1.0 -s /usr/share/sounds/sf2/FluidR3_GM.sf2CTRL Z$ aconnect 28:1 128:0$ fg                  # return to foreground> channelschan 0, Yamaha Grand Pianochan 1, Yamaha Grand Pianochan 2, Yamaha Grand Pianochan 3, Yamaha Grand Pianochan 4, Yamaha Grand Pianochan 5, Yamaha Grand Pianochan 6, Yamaha Grand Pianochan 7, Yamaha Grand Pianochan 8, Yamaha Grand Pianochan 9, Standardchan 10, Yamaha Grand Pianochan 11, Yamaha Grand Pianochan 12, Yamaha Grand Pianochan 13, Yamaha Grand Pianochan 14, Yamaha Grand Pianochan 15, Yamaha Grand Piano> fontsID  Name1  /usr/share/sounds/sf2/FluidR3_GM.sf2> inst 1              #lists instruments(long list)> prog 0 35         # fretless bass (prog chan num)> prog 0 73         # flute> prog 0 118        # 808 Tom(In Slackware64 15, the full soundfont path is /usr/share/minuet/soundfonts/GeneralUser-v1.47.sf2)...
Slackware 15 Slackware 15u/AvGaadM5•3 yr. agoSlackware 15I've been a long time user of Slackware, whatever edition that was in 1994/1996, it's what I started with. On this laptop, I ran slackpkg update and isolated the issue to the frame buffers being messed up with the update as the kernel modules was conflicted.I write this post because this Slackware update via slackpkg rendered the wlan0 and eth0 gone missing yet lspci has the device.For startx, the first issue is unable to load fbdev and onward to /dev/dri/card0 has gone missing as no screens are found.For internet on this laptop, only the loopback exists.lspci can showh 3b:00.0 for a Network Controller but there isn't a device to attach. mknod can make character devices but I don't know the major and minor numbers.What do you suggest?
Has anyone tried to compile all slackbuilds on slackbuilds.org? Has anyone tried to compile all slackbuilds on slackbuilds.org?u/sdns575•3 yr. agoHas anyone tried to compile all slackbuilds on slackbuilds.org?Hi,This is a strange question, I know.I ask this because many power (energy) could be saved instead of compiling many time the same packages by thousand users (except for cases where someone need specific requirements). Maybe providing a giant binary packages repository for slackbuilds.org?There is someone that tried this?Thank you in advance
Setup wayland on Slackware. Setup wayland on Slackware.u/lidgl4991•3 yr. agoSetup wayland on Slackware.Hello, after try some other distros and succeed on setup wayland on them, now I want to try it on Slackware. It's a bit harder than I though, with other distros, I just need to install wayland and wlroots (if available) then compile my favourite wayland compositor (dwl). In Slackware I did compile wlroots and the compositor but I can't launch it. Here thepicture. Some things I tried :add my user to video, input and seat group.satisfy all dependencies.launch seatd manually.set XDG_RUNTIME_DIR.If you have successfully setup wayland stuffs on Slackware, please let me know, thanks.
I was scouting the Slackware.uk site, and came across the Splack project...Slackware for Sparc I was scouting the Slackware.uk site, and came across the Splack project...Slackware for Sparcu/Ezmiller_2•3 yr. agoI was scouting the Slackware.uk site, and came across the Splack project...Slackware for SparcDo you think one could raise the project from the dead? The last complete ISO images from 12.1, which would be a lifetime ago. It'd be fun to try, but when you have a device the size of a hockey puck that can do 4x what your old Sparc server can do with using a 1/10th of the power, I am hesitant to do so. I wouldn't even know where to begin to be truthful. Install, then what? Download a new kernel fromkernel.organd start compiling? But is that the true Slack way?
Best way to get connected on netinstall ISO. Best way to get connected on netinstall ISO.u/lidgl4991•3 yr. agoBest way to get connected on netinstall ISO.After almost two years, I have a plan to install it on my machine using netinstall ISO. Today I try it and abort it because I can't set the connection right, I've done it before but now it's no longer works. My steps are :check my usb tether interface$ ip abring the interface down and up$ ip link set usb0 down $ ip link set usb0 upuse udhcpc$ udhcpc - i usb0When I try to ping 8.8.8.8, I get network unreachable.Any other methods ? Thanks.PS : I choose.netinstall ISO because I don't have much data plan at a time to download fullblown ISO.
So is Pat going to put out a special Slackware 30th anniversary in 2023? So is Pat going to put out a special Slackware 30th anniversary in 2023?u/Ezmiller_2•3 yr. agoSo is Pat going to put out a special Slackware 30th anniversary in 2023?I’m not going to complain if Pat doesn’t. Maybe we could make a wallpaper or special KDE theme instead. Maybe have the old Knoppix startup and shutdown sounds when you login and out!
How Do I Configure ELILO After A Kernel Upgrade? How Do I Configure ELILO After A Kernel Upgrade?[deleted]•3 yr. agoHow Do I Configure ELILO After A Kernel Upgrade?I understand the bootloader must be reconfigured manually every time you upgrade your kernel under Slackware.In case of ELILO, how would I go about doing that?
I had Slackware and Steam working perfectly! But nooo Suse has to be a spoiled brat! I had Slackware and Steam working perfectly! But nooo Suse has to be a spoiled brat!u/Ezmiller_2•3 yr. agoI had Slackware and Steam working perfectly! But nooo Suse has to be a spoiled brat!There’s a TLDR at the bottom.So I’ve been using Linux off and on since 2006, maybe 2007. I used to read Linux Format religiously and buy it when I had the money. For any non-US folks reading this, it was about $17 USD, which was worth it during the dark ages of basic DSL internet. They had an issue with Slackware 9.1 or 2?? on CD. And I got hooked!Anyway, last year, I was going to same college classes. So I figured I should get a laptop. Wanting to be frugal and not liking newer laptops having everything soldered on, I did a bit of investigation and bought a Thinkpad T430. It’s not perfect, but it works with MS and Linux. One of the things I enjoy about it is that I have space for 3 separate drives. So I dedicated one drive to windows 10 for the bad times.Ok then I decided go with Slackware on the other main SSD. Still had a 3rd slot…msata. This is my hopping drive. I put Fedora 36 on it and was pleased with it. But of course, my curiosity keeps killing me. I threw GhostBSD on it and groaned. Very slow Wi-Fi speeds. Back to Fedora. Tried MX Linux, and remembered why I don’t do Debian. Last week I gave FreeBSD a try and I died. Why is my Wi-Fi blinking constantly????? I know Slackware doesn’t have a scheduled release date, but even then, it works perfectly with my hardware.So I felt the itch coming on again. Suse? Ok, got it installed. Except I wasn’t paying attention to what drive I was installing. Yep, despite me setting my laptop to boot from the msata drive, Suse didn’t even touch it. Next time, I’ll just disconnect my other two drives first. I guess Slackware is better than I thought. It only uses what I tell it to use.TLDR: I’m stupid and my perfect sandbox is sandwiched.
What is the firewall that is used in slackware What is the firewall that is used in slackware[deleted]•3 yr. agoWhat is the firewall that is used in slackwareHello, I am a beginner in this distribution of Linux and I need to know more about it and I want to know what is the firewall that is used in this distribution.
Any good sites with relevant scripts for Slackware? Any good sites with relevant scripts for Slackware?u/Ezmiller_2•3 yr. agoAny good sites with relevant scripts for Slackware?I’m looking to get into coding, but I need a purpose to do so. I also want to avoid the copy-paste mentality if I can. I just don’t think you learn as much as you can by blindly pasting things into the terminal.
how to use the package manager how to use the package manageru/mrkitten19o8•3 yr. agohow to use the package manageri know the title sounds stupid, but im a newbie with slackware and reading the wiki isnt any help. it tells me to use installpkg so i try that. it needs a specific file name. so i use slackpkg and it will not install packages that are in the official repository like xfce and vlc.
what did slackware 15 change in the installation process? what did slackware 15 change in the installation process?u/sfzombie13•3 yr. agowhat did slackware 15 change in the installation process?more specifically, what change did they make to the bootloader installation part?  i used to dual boot 3 distros from my second hard drive, /sdb.  i have windows on /sda and used to install lilo to /sdb.  now, after a reinstall sometime in march, i can't install the bootloader to anywhere but /sda.  where do i go to look for the changes to the process so i can change it back?it used to be just that easy; hit the boot menu when i was starting up if i wanted slack or mint and choose to boot from /sdb or let it go if want windows.  now, i had to install windows first, then slack and let lilo go to /sda and overwrite the windows bootloader.  not a bad way to do it, until i had a problem with cloning my windows hard drive to a new one.to start windows, i had to open the command prompt from the install disk and rewrite the mbr.   i am about to try to get the slack installation going again, but would much prefer to change something so i can go back to the way it was, just in case this happens again.oh, just in case the advice would be to disconnect /sda after the windows install and then install slack, i tried that.  it installed lilo to the right hard drive, but it was labelled /sda at the time.  that screwed things pretty good until i reinstalled with lilo on the windows drive /sda.
How (un)stable is current? How (un)stable is current?u/afb_etc•3 yr. agoHow (un)stable is current?Hey folks, been on Slackware 15 for a short time and very much enjoying myself, despite a few missteps. I'm slowly accruing parts for a new desktop computer which I'll aim to build in the new year, and I'm currently thinking I might like to run Slackware current on it (I'd keep my laptop on stable in this scenario).I was just wondering how tempestuous the experience is likely to be? Are we talking Arch-esque 2-3 times a year everything is buggered, or more like Debian testing where every now and then things need a tweak? Is it stable enough to be my daily driver for uni work (I study computing and maths as a mature student on top of working full time), podcast/video recording/editing, and general daily life maintenance nonsense?Also, how up to date are the packages, and how's the availability of additional software through Alienbob's repo and/or slackbuilds? Just trying to get a sense of what the experience is like in comparison to the stable release.Cheers.
Flatpak on Slackware Flatpak on Slackwareu/polar•3 yr. agoFlatpak on Slackwarehttps://alien.slackbook.org/blog/flatpak-on-slackware/
GNOME 43.1 LIVE (on Slackware) GNOME 43.1 LIVE (on Slackware)u/jloc0•3 yr. agoGNOME 43.1 LIVE (on Slackware)https://slackware.lngn.net/gnome-43-1-liveslak/
What's with the flipped logo on cafepress? What's with the flipped logo on cafepress?u/Ezmiller_2•3 yr. agoWhat's with the flipped logo on cafepress?So Pat has a few items on cafepress with a flipped or flippy logo. Did he try changing the Slackware logo for a while, or was it an issue with the store that he had to get around?
Guidance for Nvidia based multi GPU/display Guidance for Nvidia based multi GPU/displayu/shadow0rm•3 yr. agoGuidance for Nvidia based multi GPU/displayTL;DR Anyone know of a recent, and thorough guide for high resolution multimotitor support on Nvidia GPUs?Hey everyone, it's been some time since I've daily driven Slackware (v11 was my last ride) and now coming back. I'm getting stuck in a frustrating loop (this is the same across Slackware, rhel 9, and Ubuntu) that isn't specific to Slackware, but would rather be running Slackware so into the breach once more dear friend. I have 2x RTX2060 KO inside a Lenovo p910, 2x AOC (2560x1080 60hz) and a single LG (2560x1440 60hz) Where the LG is center, and the two AOC displays are left and right in portrait mode. LG is connected via DP to one RTX and the two AOC are DP and HDMI to the second RTX card. I can get the orientation correct, portrait mode, and the middle LG monitor resolution all correct. My trouble is the two AOC, (with xorg, Wayland, Nvidia drivers, etc, tried many different things) I cant get them to a custom res of 1080x2560 (2560x1080 landscape respectively) I've gone through arandr/xrandr, and many many blogs/etc, but can't for the life of me get the two AOC s in portrait mode, and 1080x2560. I would prefer using the Nvidia drivers, but isn't totally necessary.  This setup, sadly, works without any tweaks in the Microsoft Windows 10 world....P.S. Nvidia drivers install is many steps easier in Slackware than in Ubuntu (if you don't use their software center) so that's a win :)Thanks all!Edit: this is all done with KDE/Gnome. I'll be trying again today with XFCE
Any good Slackware stories? Any good Slackware stories?u/Ezmiller_2•3 yr. agoAny good Slackware stories?Yeah, we have tales from tech support. But I want to hear some Slackware stories. Ok, prolly wanna read not hear lol.
UEFI and slackware as a second OS. UEFI and slackware as a second OS.u/DerShokus•3 yr. agoUEFI and slackware as a second OS.Hi. If I press F12 while booting I can choose a boot partition. I would like to install slackware as a second OS without unlocking UEFI.If I install Slackware and elilo on (let's say) /dev/sdb2, will it work if I select /dev/sdb2 in UEFI menu? Is there any other way to boot slackware without a bootloader?
Do you use RPM on Slackware? Do you use RPM on Slackware?u/lost_between•3 yr. agoDo you use RPM on Slackware?It came to me as a surprise actually that Slackware has rpm - I used it (with --nodeps since dependencies are just basically libc and basic stuff which is definitely present on a base system) but I used this to succesfully install Cloudflare VPN. It's very handy!And maybe that would be useful to someone, the RC script I quickly wrote for that:https://dumpz.org/aPpT973Mhfd5
So on Steam, I get a black screen on certain games. Usually Win95 games are the stinkers. So on Steam, I get a black screen on certain games. Usually Win95 games are the stinkers.u/Ezmiller_2•3 yr. agoSo on Steam, I get a black screen on certain games. Usually Win95 games are the stinkers.I use Proton 7. Should I go with an earlier version, like 6?Hardware-wise I just have an Intel 3220m, so Ivy Bridge GPU. I also have the Nouveau driver, but I don't think I'm using it.
Problems with X Problems with Xu/ProtectionNo6495•3 yr. agoProblems with XCould someone help, please?Everytime I runxinit, this is the output:https://dpaste.com/2ZULH4CJF
Please assist: A Slackware newb installs and breaks Slackware Please assist: A Slackware newb installs and breaks Slackwareu/exzow•3 yr. agoPlease assist: A Slackware newb installs and breaks SlackwareTL;DR:I borked my new Slackware install and need to know how to update the boot loader to reflect the current OS version after a full upgrade.The Background:I made a post recently in another sub reddit and the suggestion I got and tried is "Install Slackware".Followed some guides and got everything working, but afterslackpkg updateandslackpkg upgradeI read a notification (which I didn't copy down) but roughly stated "kernel updated, update your boot loader to reflect this"I don't know how to do this and as a result I've borked this install twice in one day. How to I update the boot loader to reflect the current OS version after a full upgrade? Additionally, is there something I can do differently which will prevent this from occurring next time?
Trouble installing Lenovo N23 Chromebook Trouble installing Lenovo N23 Chromebooku/LiteratiTheDigerati•3 yr. agoTrouble installing Lenovo N23 ChromebookI have a Chromebook N23 by Lenovo but after booting the the bios or UEFI the USB stick (Slackware 15) it hangs on the keyboard selection or does not recognize the keyboard so I can't even partition the disk or memory card.This is not my first rodeo with Slackware I have installed and used it many times but never on a Chromebook. This is an older Chromebook so Linux will be installed as the sole operating system. My experience tells me the non-free debian IMG or ISO would install on this thing no problem.Is there some kind of kernel parameter I should pass before booting the kernel or something?
Is there a way to put Slackware on a Debian install for my Sparc V125? Is there a way to put Slackware on a Debian install for my Sparc V125?u/Ezmiller_2•3 yr. agoIs there a way to put Slackware on a Debian install for my Sparc V125?I finally got my server up after realizing the screws I was using for my drive caddy were too big. Completely foreign to server hardware, let alone Sparc. I tried playing around with some variants of OpenSolaris, but they all flunked the test. Plus the commands were different and I needed a cheatsheet.But anyway, I got Debian 11 installed, but it’s not what I want. I enjoy slack more. Maybe the simplicity?
net/ipv6 firewall settings net/ipv6 firewall settingsu/cyranix•3 yr. agonet/ipv6 firewall settingsI was revisiting the firewall generator likehttp://www.slackware.com/~alien/efg/and making some updates for my own systems (especially for ipv6), gave me cause to wonder, what (if any) kinds of filters and rules do you guys use for your own systems these days? Especially, do you set any thing in proc/net/ipv6 or do you generally just leave the defaults? I spent the better part of a few hours looking athttps://sysctl-explorer.net/net/ipv6/but honestly I just don't really see anything that I think needs to be set/changed for a typical installation (whether server or desktop)...Any other things you think aught to be given attention for ipv4 either? I have been on the fence about TCP syncookies for a while now, do you still like to keep those enabled or do you turn those off these days? I have some virtual machines with (relatively) small memory, but the last time I worried about a synflood I think we still measured memory in megabytes...Just looking for some general thoughts and input! Particularly server directed, but I want to hear your thoughts for a desktop system too... Also, anyone using nftables instead of iptables? Thoughts on that too...
Successfully installed! Cheers for the advice, folks Successfully installed! Cheers for the advice, folksu/afb_etc•3 yr. agoSuccessfully installed! Cheers for the advice, folks
[Q] XFS users: what's the one single killer feature? [Q] XFS users: what's the one single killer feature?u/bsdooby•3 yr. ago[Q] XFS users: what's the one single killer feature?IYO: compared to other filesystems, what's the one feature you appreciate the most?
Things Slackware users don't have to worry about Things Slackware users don't have to worry aboutu/Ezmiller_2•3 yr. agoThings Slackware users don't have to worry abouthttps://www.reddit.com/r/Fedora/comments/xpt34f/fedora_37_drops_vaapi_accelerated_hardware_video/
Thinking about making the jump - couple of questions. Thinking about making the jump - couple of questions.u/afb_etc•3 yr. agoThinking about making the jump - couple of questions.Hey folks, been running an Ubuntu/Windows 10 dual boot on a low end laptop for a while now. I want to wipe my SSD and just run Linux since I've not actually used Windows more than a couple times in months and I've found Linux-friendly alternatives for everything I used on there anyway. Also somewhat bored of Ubuntu and want a distro that'll help me learn more about Linux. Decided on Slackware over Arch because of the stability (ostensibly. In reality the decision was based mostly on vibes).So, a couple of questions before I pull the trigger:Anything in particular I need to know about installing from USB?Is getting it all set up and running well over the course of a weekend (including WiFi, troubleshooting, etc) plausible for someone with a low-moderate amount of tech knowledge plausible?
I made my own version of Leon's wallpaper from Mr. Robot I made my own version of Leon's wallpaper from Mr. Robotu/Rosbet•3 yr. agoI made my own version of Leon's wallpaper from Mr. Robot
Slack and Discord: community thoughts, how to help, etc. Slack and Discord: community thoughts, how to help, etc.u/CoherentLogic•3 yr. agoSlack and Discord: community thoughts, how to help, etc.Hi all,I've loved Slackware since 1996. 15.0 is a fantastic release.BUT (you knew it was coming)...I require Slack and Discord in my daily work, and the browser-based apps are unusable IMO. The Slackbuilds for these often go weeks or months without updates. You can get Discord as a tarball that will work on Slackware, but not Slack.Now, as a developer, I know that maintaining this kind of thing is NOT an easy job, and it's usually worse than thankless. None of us are in a position to Karen up and demand anything. So what I'm interested in hearing from the community is: are there enough of us who are forced into this Electron-based nonsense to come up with a plan to try and sponsor the maintenance of these packages, with real money? If so, I think we should approach the package maintainers.Thoughts?Cheers!
Samba updates not working in 15.0 Samba updates not working in 15.0u/Hob_Goblin88•3 yr. agoSamba updates not working in 15.0Is anybody else experiencing samba not working with any version beyond 4.15.5? Because every time i upgrade it to a newer version, it breaks down again. I've resorted to just reinstalling 4.15.5 and blacklist it.
Is it possible to get the Common Desktop Environment (CDE) running on Slackware? Is it possible to get the Common Desktop Environment (CDE) running on Slackware?u/TronNerd82•3 yr. agoIs it possible to get the Common Desktop Environment (CDE) running on Slackware?I'm more so used to CDE from using old Unix systems, and I would like to know how, if possible, to get it going in Slackware.
New to Slack and finally got my system up and running how I like it. I think I found my new home, maybe I'll finally be done with distrohopping. Thank you for creating this awesome distribution! New to Slack and finally got my system up and running how I like it. I think I found my new home, maybe I'll finally be done with distrohopping. Thank you for creating this awesome distribution![deleted]•3 yr. agoNew to Slack and finally got my system up and running how I like it. I think I found my new home, maybe I'll finally be done with distrohopping. Thank you for creating this awesome distribution!
Slackware as daily? Slackware as daily?u/Alone_as_always•3 yr. agoSlackware as daily?How are you all enjoying Slackware? I'm not sure if It's a good option as a daily driver
Any legit store that sells Slackware merchandise? Any legit store that sells Slackware merchandise?u/mariolpantunes•3 yr. agoAny legit store that sells Slackware merchandise?There was an official Slackware store, but if I remember correctly, the store did not shared the royalties with the Slackware creator. That lead to the creation of the Patreon for Slackware. But is there any other store that sell legit Slackware merchandise?
Slackware broke after update Slackware broke after updateu/panzaslocas•3 yr. agoSlackware broke after updateSo I installed Slackware 15 yesterday and after my first update I cannot longer use the mouse nor the keyboard when I start X. Also, before GUI the text lost its clarity leading me to believe that it has something to do with graphics.The thing is that I starting to think that there some bug related to my specific laptop, during the last 3 days I've had problems.First an Ubuntu install working for more than 4-6 months broke after an update and X just didn't work. Couldn't fix it, so I tried Linux Mint and also, after an update it broke.Thinking that the error may lay on Ubuntu based distros I reseted everything to the one GNU/Linux I knew was stable, Slackware, but now it also broke.I don't want to reset everything again fearing another update will keep killing my laptop.I've added a short youtube video showing where it hangs.
Trying to install slack on my Thinkpad T430 and I keep getting the L99 Lilo error. Trying to install slack on my Thinkpad T430 and I keep getting the L99 Lilo error.u/Ezmiller_2•3 yr. agoTrying to install slack on my Thinkpad T430 and I keep getting the L99 Lilo error.I had Slackware 15 installed on it at one time. I thought maybe Slackware was seeing the wrong drive, so I swapped drives, and still keep getting an error.I’ve set up 3 partitions—2Gb for /boot, 8gb for swap, and the rest for /. Should I set the /boot partition smaller, like 200mb?
Why do you like Slackware? Why do you like Slackware?u/B_A_Skeptic•3 yr. agoWhy do you like Slackware?I never used Slackware, and I mean this as a friendly question. Why do you prefer Slackware over other advanced distros like Arch or Gentoo, or less advanced distros like Debian? Are most Slackware users long time users who have used it for decades?
Slackware 15 and custom kernel Slackware 15 and custom kernelu/sdns575•3 yr. agoSlackware 15 and custom kernelHey there, I would like to add AppArmor to my system but AppArmor is disabled by default. So I need to recompile my kernel every time the kernel got updates.I don't know what is the best procedure for this but this is what I think I should do:Blacklist kernel packages for update.Download the updated kernel source from Slackware repositories and recompile with AppArmor enabled.Install it.I'm missing something in this procedure?Thank you in advance
slackpkg pinning? slackpkg pinning?[deleted]•3 yr. agoslackpkg pinning?Is there a way to 'pin' a package so that slackpkg won't attempt to upgrade it when I useslackpkg upgrade-all? I manually complied ffmpeg from a slackbuild because the included ffmpeg package doesn't have x264 encoding. The problem is that I must now manually unselect ffmpeg during upgrades so it doesn't overwrite my complied version.
XFCE XFCEu/blue_y59•3 yr. agoXFCESlackware 15 with updated kernel and XFCE as DE on a Core Duo Laptop is the cats meow.
Help me guys Help me guysu/V1_Ni_Z1N•3 yr. agoHelp me guysHey guys, so I updated my system, my kernel and stuff, but I saw that I have to change some boot settings, and I don't know how, could you help me? Oh and I use elilo as a boot
Setting up zipslack on a thinkpad 380z Slackware 11! any recommendations? im wanting something to look retro and such. What DE should i use. Setting up zipslack on a thinkpad 380z Slackware 11! any recommendations? im wanting something to look retro and such. What DE should i use.u/fennectech•4 yr. agoSetting up zipslack on a thinkpad 380z Slackware 11! any recommendations? im wanting something to look retro and such. What DE should i use.
Perl module mismatch not allow to get into cpan shell plus other hindraance Perl module mismatch not allow to get into cpan shell plus other hindraanceu/unixbhaskar•4 yr. agoPerl module mismatch not allow to get into cpan shell plus other hindraanceRESOLVED.Here is what I am getting :bhaskar@Slackware_17:52:57_Tue Aug 23: :~>cpanListUtil.c: loadable library and perl binaries are mismatched (got first handshake key 0xeb00080, needed 0xeb80080)Kindly shed some light.
USB wifi kernel module no longer compiles after -current update to gcc 12.2 USB wifi kernel module no longer compiles after -current update to gcc 12.2u/sazaland•4 yr. agoUSB wifi kernel module no longer compiles after -current update to gcc 12.2Will probably post this on LinuxQuestions board later today, but figured I'd ask in the meantime. It compiled fine on the previous kernel(5.19.1) and many many previous releases before that, and the errors thrown seem like syntax complaints, so I suspect gcc 12.2 is just more strict on something than it used to be.My question is how you think this would be best approached, would I hit the cumulative mirrors and try to roll back gcc? There's a number of packages involved, and I'm unfortunately not super versed in the toolchain as far as tinkering with the installed packages or config.Any ideas appreciated.
Oops - wrong patches, now xz can't unpack for me Oops - wrong patches, now xz can't unpack for meu/KGHN•4 yr. agoOops - wrong patches, now xz can't unpack for meUpdate:  SOLVED, solution that worked for us is below in my replies to helpful people who replied to me.I made an error.  I downloaded the 32 bit Slackware 14.2 patches (since December 2021) instead of the needed 64 bit ones.  I gave them to my partner on a flash drive.  My partner started installing with installpkg... ran into big trouble.  Now xz is broken, and there seems to be no way to install a working version of xz.  installpkg depends on xz.  We have a 14.2-64 installation DVD, and can get to a bash prompt (useful), but KDE doesn't run.  Any ideas, fellow users?
Revisiting Slackware 96 in 2022. Revisiting Slackware 96 in 2022.u/combuchan•4 yr. agoRevisiting Slackware 96 in 2022.Revisiting Slackware 96 in 2022.r/vintageunix•4 yr. agoRevisiting Slackware 96 in 2022.Slackware 96 was my go-to distribution back in the day when I was a teenager running linux servers for faculty at the university by installing off of ZIP disks.  I also used IRIX and Solaris some years later at my home lab long after those machines were obsolete.I missed those halcyon days so I got Slack 96 installed on VirtualBox (work macbook underneath) and have been playing with it the last couple days.Results are mixed because I decided that I won't install anything new and compile from source all the way. 😎No openssl yet.  Compiled to kernel 2.2.26 and only got gcc up to 3.0.4 because of the persistent issues with gcc and glibc breaking each other on every release.  I still need glibc-2.0.6 to compile.I would not have cared about gcc but the latest openssl needs Perl 5.10 which is unfair to vintage UNIX enthusiasts and I presume the compilation errors are because of outdated gcc.XFree86 is also not working.  8bpp works "out of the box" at 320x200.  I tried with the framebuffer at 3.3.6 (i think it's missing the x86 compilation target for XF68[sic]) and I tried again with 4.3.0 but that's causing its own compilation problems missing an include.The best part of this whole experience was to take this dirt-old concept and do "something" with it and seeing how far I could get with it.  There's so much to learn and fix.  It also had the unexpected side benefit of reinvigorating my career and preparing myself for the my next position.I'm not done yet and am looking forward (I think) to applying what I've learned to my Indigo 2 that's sitting on the shelf.  At least kernel 2.2.26 hypothetically supports a third party EFS driver I found ...49upvotes·29comments
Slackware with only "base linux system" : slackpkg not included ? Slackware with only "base linux system" : slackpkg not included ?u/tiny_humble_guy•4 yr. agoSlackware with only "base linux system" : slackpkg not included ?Today I decided to try slackware again. I usedslackware64-current-mini-install.iso(I prefer non-bloated installation) and when came intoPackage series selectionI only chose "base linux system". The installation was successfull and I can reboot to login prompt. It surprised me when I ran slackpkg and it's not even installed / included. Is it a common thing ? Thanks.
Slackware installer incompatible with Ventoy ? Slackware installer incompatible with Ventoy ?u/billdietrich1•4 yr. agoSlackware installer incompatible with Ventoy ?Tried installing Slackware, then later Absolute Linux.  Both failed, unable to find the software source (ISO on USB stick).  I'm using Ventoy as the booter on that stick.  Is this not supported ?  Thanks.[Edit: was using old version of Ventoy, latest version works.]
Crackling / Popping audio noises with and without headphones Crackling / Popping audio noises with and without headphonesu/lucaz01•4 yr. agoCrackling / Popping audio noises with and without headphonesHello people, I've being searching a way to fix this audio problem for a while already but until now I couldn't be able to find a good solution. I also don't know exactly what triggers this problem, because it doesn't happen all the time.Mostly after my computer is with a high uptime around +6 hours or if I used a lot of its hardware resources, for example compiling a big software or gaming, I start to hear crackling noises when I play audio, It's hard to notice when I just boot up the computer, and It can happen in Firefox or in discord, those are the only 2 applications I've tested.My notebook is a Lenovo IdeaPadS145What I've already tried:1- Edit the File/etc/pulse/default.paAdding the line:load-module module-udev-detect tsched=02- Create the file, adding the lines/home/$USER/.config/pulse/default.pa.include /etc/pulse/default.pa.nofailunload-module module-suspend-on-idle.fail3- Create the file/home/$USER/.config/pulse/daemon.confadding the line:default-sample-rate = 480004- Uncomment lines in the file/etc/pulse/daemon.confdefault-sample-rate = 48000(I'm not sure what those attempts do exactly, I searched a lot on google and I tried many ideas to see if any would work).
glXChooseVisual Failed when i try to open steam glXChooseVisual Failed when i try to open steamu/Kill_Code0•4 yr. agoglXChooseVisual Failed when i try to open steamSo i have a thinkpad t430s and a gt 710 (in my pc i have an intel ha 4000 integrated), when i try to open steam with the integrated graphic card it runs but, when i use my gt 710 it won't open.Here are 2 screenshot of the log when i try to open it with bash and with the desktop file...Log of the shell:# ------------------------------------ #   Slackware 32-bit:Check the directory matching your Slackware version belowhttp://www.slackware.com/~alien/slackbuilds/steamclient/deps/. Install/upgrade any packages you find there (may be zero).Slackware 64-bit:You need to install multilib (seehttps://docs.slackware.com/slackware:multilib). Additionally, you need to install/upgrade any packages in t he '<slackwareversion>/multilib' subdirectory ofhttp://www.slackware.com/~alien/slackbuilds/steamclient/deps/instead.# ------------------------------------ #steam.sh[5433]: Running Steam on slackware 15.0 64-bit steam.sh[5433]: STEAM_RUNTIME is enabled automatically setup.sh[5508]: Steam runtime environment up-to-date! steam.sh[5433]: Steam client's requirements are satisfied [2022-07-28 12:49:43] Startup - updater built Jul 26 2022 18:53:52 [2022-07-28 12:49:43] Startup - Steam Client launched with: '/home/sam/.local/share/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam' Installing breakpad exception handler for appid(steam)/version(1658944613) Looks like steam didn't shutdown cleanly, scheduling immediate update check [2022-07-28 12:49:43] Loading cached metrics from disk (/home/sam/.local/share/Steam/package/steam_client_metrics.bin) [2022-07-28 12:49:43] Using the following download hosts for Public, Realm steamglobal [2022-07-28 12:49:43] 1.https://cdn.cloudflare.steamstatic.com, /client/, Realm 'steamglobal', weight was 100, source = 'update_hosts_cached .vdf' [2022-07-28 12:49:43] 2.https://cdn.akamai.steamstatic.com, /client/, Realm 'steamglobal', weight was 100, source = 'update_hosts_cached.vdf ' [2022-07-28 12:49:43] 3.http://media.steampowered.com, /client/, Realm 'steamglobal', weight was 1, source = 'baked in' Installing breakpad exception handler for appid(steam)/version(1658944613) [2022-07-28 12:49:43] Checking for update on startup [2022-07-28 12:49:43] Checking for available updates... [2022-07-28 12:49:43] Downloading manifest:https://cdn.cloudflare.steamstatic.com/client/steam_client_ubuntu12[2022-07-28 12:49:43] Manifest download: send request Installing breakpad exception handler for appid(steam)/version(1658944613) [2022-07-28 12:49:43] Manifest download: waiting for download to finish [2022-07-28 12:49:43] Manifest download: finished [2022-07-28 12:49:43] Download skipped: /client/steam_client_ubuntu12 version 1658944613, installed version 1658944613, existing pending vers ion 0 [2022-07-28 12:49:43] Nothing to do [2022-07-28 12:49:43] Verifying installation... [2022-07-28 12:49:43] Performing checksum verification of executable files [2022-07-28 12:49:44] Verification complete Loaded SDL version 2.23.1-7374734 ComputeStartupMode: found registry default startup mode: 0Installing breakpad exception handler for appid(steam)/version(1658944613) steamwebhelper.sh[5610]: Runtime for steamwebhelper: defaulting to /home/sam/.local/share/Steam/ubuntu12_64/steam-runtime-heavy steamwebhelper.sh[5610]: Using CEF sandbox (try with -no-cef-sandbox if this fails) glXChooseVisual failed glXChooseVisual failedsrc/steamUI/Main.cpp (387) : Assertion Failed: Error: glXChooseVisual failed src/steamUI/Main.cpp (387) : Assertion Failed: Error: glXChooseVisual failed Installing breakpad exception handler for appid(steam)/version(1658944613) assert_20220728124945_7.dmp[5635]: Uploading dump (out-of-process) /tmp/dumps/assert_20220728124945_7.dmp assert_20220728124945_7.dmp[5635]: Finished uploading minidump (out-of-process): success = yes assert_20220728124945_7.dmp[5635]: response: CrashID=bp-32ccc1d8-fe99-4761-88fc-479512220728 assert_20220728124945_7.dmp[5635]: file ''/tmp/dumps/assert_20220728124945_7.dmp'', upload yes: ''CrashID=bp-32ccc1d8-fe99-4761-88fc-47951222 0728'' crash_20220728124947_8.dmp[5701]: Uploading dump (out-of-process) /tmp/dumps/crash_20220728124947_8.dmp /home/sam/.local/share/Steam/steam.sh: riga 794:  5601 Errore di segmentazione "$STEAMROOT/$STEAMEXEPATH" "$@" bash-5.1$ crash_20220728124947_8.dmp[5701]: Finished uploading minidump (out-of-process): success = yes crash_20220728124947_8.dmp[5701]: response: CrashID=bp-e7c3e1df-92a4-411d-b9ac-917e22220728 crash_20220728124947_8.dmp[5701]: file ''/tmp/dumps/crash_20220728124947_8.dmp'', upload yes: ''CrashID=bp-e7c3e1df-92a4-411d-b9ac-917e222207 28''Maybe i need to upgrade some pkgs?
In unable to run slackpkg upgrade -all In unable to run slackpkg upgrade -allu/OutsideNo1877•4 yr. agoIn unable to run slackpkg upgrade -allI recently installed slackware and was going to update i went and set the mirror and im gettingERROR: cannot verify mirrors.slackware.com’s certificate, issued by CN=R3,0=Let’s Encrypt,C=US: Unable to locally verify the issuers authorityIt says i can connect using —no-check-certificate which does absolutely nothing and gives me the same error
KDE Plasma issues when using a display manager KDE Plasma issues when using a display manager[deleted]•4 yr. agoKDE Plasma issues when using a display managerI just installed Slackware 15 on a laptop and I'm having a rather strange issue. I'm using KDE Plasma, but when starting it via a display manager such asxdmorsddm, certain things don't work correctly. For example, it doesn't respect the setting 'do nothing when laptop lid is closed' and I also can't adjust screen brightness. However, it all works perfectly fine if I usestartxfrom a tty instead of xdm. But only if I run X11 on that specific tty! Any suggestions on what is going on here?
Is there any benefit to using systemd on slackware? Is there any benefit to using systemd on slackware?u/ezzep•4 yr. agoIs there any benefit to using systemd on slackware?Just curious. Yes, I said the S word. No, I'm not here to evangelize systemd to anyone here. I was thinking of installing it and seeing what the difference was.
[For-Fun] What was the slowest software you had to build ? How many times? [For-Fun] What was the slowest software you had to build ? How many times?u/lucaz01•4 yr. ago[For-Fun] What was the slowest software you had to build ? How many times?
udevadm not found on install and not in sbopkg, does slackware have a different way of managing udev rules? udevadm not found on install and not in sbopkg, does slackware have a different way of managing udev rules?u/grep_Name•4 yr. agoudevadm not found on install and not in sbopkg, does slackware have a different way of managing udev rules?Just ran an install with all the software offered on slackware 15 but I'm not seeing udevadm as being installed or available, just wondering if there's another workflow for interacting with udev rules that's preferred?
what syslog analyzer are you using? what syslog analyzer are you using?u/MetaEd•4 yr. agowhat syslog analyzer are you using?my ad-hoc scripts to do reporting and IP blocking from the syslog are getting pretty sophisticated -- thinking I should look at open-source programs before I commit myself any further to maintaining my own scripts.What's good, either preinstalled in Slackware or having good Slackware support as a contributed Slackbuild?
Slackware rice for my old dell laptop Slackware rice for my old dell laptopu/phosphat_amoniya•4 yr. agoSlackware rice for my old dell laptop
I still love slackpkg I still love slackpkgu/OHacker•4 yr. agoI still love slackpkgI still love slackpkgr/linuxmasterrace•4 yr. agoI still love slackpkg"NOTE: Some installed or upgraded package may need reboot:openssl-solibs-1.1.1p-x86_64-1_slack15.0openssl-1.1.1p-x86_64-1_slack15.0See /var/run/needs_restarting for review this list"The above message is from slackpkg, the slackware package manager. Now compare this with other distros and even windows where you just get something of the like "system reboot needed". I consider slackware a user friendly distro which doesn't take back the freedom in the name of being "user friendly"14upvotes·6comments
I want to install slackware on my chromebook I want to install slackware on my chromebooku/TIMISONREDDIT7•4 yr. agoI want to install slackware on my chromebookI've have this chromebook that I've gotten from my friend and just recently I've dig it out of the pile of papers that where below my desk. I'm currently using slackware on my desktop pc and wanted to know if I could install it on my old chromebookedit I've found its model and its an HP Chromebook 11other edit: no answers so far so thanks for wasting this old man's time
Slackpkg+ wants to upgrade my gcc and glibc packages from multilib back to 64bit. Slackpkg+ wants to upgrade my gcc and glibc packages from multilib back to 64bit.u/Hob_Goblin88•4 yr. agoSlackpkg+ wants to upgrade my gcc and glibc packages from multilib back to 64bit.I have my slackpkg+ config all set up to prioritize multilib, but now it want to revert my glibc and gcc back to (newer) 64bit. Is this normal because there aren't any multilib versions of them yet, or is something else going on?
What is the future of Slackaware? What is the future of Slackaware?[deleted]•4 yr. agoWhat is the future of Slackaware?Hey fellas what do you think? What are your predictions about what is waiting for Slackware in the near and then far future?
Slackware 15.0: where do i find a initial ram disk ready and compatible with megaraid disk ctrl? Slackware 15.0: where do i find a initial ram disk ready and compatible with megaraid disk ctrl?u/rinux_it•4 yr. agoSlackware 15.0: where do i find a initial ram disk ready and compatible with megaraid disk ctrl?Hi!Since with the heat of these days I'm going crazy doing a rebuild of the usb key to install the 15.0 release on a raid controller. I was wondering if anyone can tell me where to download a version of the initial disk updated with the kernel that does not suffer from a bug on the megaraid controller!?The original kernel crashes when the scsi bus scan starts, while the new kernel 5.15.38 contains the fix but is not usable with the distro initrd because there are only the modules of the old kernel there.Any advice is welcome!Thanks,Arturo.
protonvpn-cli protonvpn-cliu/Upnortheh•4 yr. agoprotonvpn-cliAnybody here using the protonvpn-cli script from SBo?The web site shows "Proton VPN has 0 Free servers in 0 countries" and "0 Free servers."There used to be about 48 free servers. I read today there now are 17.Using protonvpn connect US-FREE#XX fails with:[!] US-FREE#XX doesn't exist, is under maintenance, or inaccessible with your plan.Using protonvpn connect -f fails with Python error messages.I am wondering if this temporary or permanent or if only paid servers are now available.Thanks!
Manual installation of slack. Manual installation of slack.u/WebcomicsAddiction•4 yr. agoManual installation of slack.Context:I'm trying to installslacklinux on ac100 using this guide:https://docs.slackware.com/howtos:hardware:arm:toshiba_ac100_dynabook_azReason why i use that specific guide is because all other guides have broken links.So now i will go over what i've done in order:Somehow  managed to get my hands on rescue image from another guide and flashed  it to p3 partition using nvflash. From this point im using this rescue  image (which is basically linux with basic busybox) to do stuff on  partitions.Downloaded boot.img, kernel and rootfs from guide. Rootfs that i've downloaded at first was slackaarch64 from this link:http://slackware.uk/slackwarearm/slackwarearm-devtools/minirootfs/roots/dd'd boot.img to mmcblk0p2 partition.Formatted mmcblk0p7 partition to ext4.Unpacked rootfs to mmcblk0p7.Tried to start system. Bootloader threw me into initramfs terminal. Realised that i might need to install kernel as well.Decided to untar kernel to a flash drive and then just copied it to /boot. Also copied /lib/modules and /lib/firmware.Started  system again. initramfs terminal again. Noticed that the partition that  is mounted as root is different from the one that i've put rootfs into.   Realised that this bootloader(?) sees more partitions than rescue  image. Rescue image sees partitions from mmcblk0 to mmcblk0p7 and  bootloader sees partitions from mmcblk0 to mmcblk0p12 and marks  partition that i extracted rootfs to as mmcblk0p12 instead of mmcblk0p7.Decided  to modify boot.img. Since i have no idea what im supposed to modify i  just changed kernel parameter in cfg file from mmcblk0p7 to mmcblk0p12dd'd boot.img to mmcblk0p2 again.Now  when laptop starts it no longer throws me into initramfs terminal and  instead just kernelpanics. Last few error messages say that it cant find  /lib/modules/3.0.27-1-ac100/something.something and that it cant find  /sbin/init.Realise that rootfs might be for 64 processor and this processor doesnt support 64 bit.Downloadedslackarm-15.0-miniroot_15Feb22.tar.xzinstead. Unpacked it into folder. Put zImage , /lib/modules and /lib/firmware beforehand.Deleted everything on mmcblk0p7/12 and copied rootfs with precopied kernel beforehand.Tried to start system again. Same thing. No initrootfs terminal, cant find sbin/init, cant find modules.Renamed modules so that folder matches error message. Added mmcblk0p12 into fstab. Restarted laptop. Same thing.Tried to chroot into rootfs for shits and giggles. chroot says it cant execute /bin/sh.As you can see i have not a slightest fucking idea what im doing.What  am i missing? Do i need to put initrd.img into /boot ? Do i need to  edit some other scripts? Use older version of rootfs? Change something  else in boot.img?
Hi cant find slackbuild for google chrome in 15.0 Hi cant find slackbuild for google chrome in 15.0u/rkrams•4 yr. agoHi cant find slackbuild for google chrome in 15.0Only can find in 14.2 how to modify it to run for 15.0
install Slackware 15 ON NVMe install Slackware 15 ON NVMeu/casujo18•4 yr. agoinstall Slackware 15 ON NVMeHello guys, first of all I think this is my first post. And sorry for my English.I'd like install slackware 15 on Huawei mate D14 v.2021 on NVMe ssd but I can't find any tutorial. All there are is for 14.2 version. Somebody can help me please. And one more question, I'm passionate of programming java. Somebody did have trouble to install any program like Jenkins, docker, mongodb once installed on nvme disc? Thanks.
My new RX 6600 runs like a charm with Slackware 15! My new RX 6600 runs like a charm with Slackware 15!u/Hob_Goblin88•4 yr. agoMy new RX 6600 runs like a charm with Slackware 15!So, this is the first time i have a modern AMD gpu in one of my Linux systems and so the first time i get to use the opensource drivers in the kernel. Like the title says, it runs like a charm and i couldn't be happier. But i was curious if even though i know the stable kernel only gets security patches, do modules like the AMD gpu driver module get updated, or is it frozen like the rest of the kernel?P.s. Sorry if this is a rtfm question.
Pat and AlienBob need to write a book on Slackware. Also a new manual since the store ripped Pat off. Pat and AlienBob need to write a book on Slackware. Also a new manual since the store ripped Pat off.u/ezzep•4 yr. agoPat and AlienBob need to write a book on Slackware. Also a new manual since the store ripped Pat off.Seriously, I would love to read it. I know Pat values his privacy like most linux gurus or users do, so I would understand that reasoning. It'd make a great read I'm sure.Edit: can't spell I guess.